<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 SYSTEM "http://www.gutenberg.org/tei/marcello/0.4/dtd/pgtei.dtd" [

<!ENTITY u5  "http://www.tei-c.org/Lite/">

]>

<TEI.2 lang="en">
<teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
    <titleStmt>
      <title>Harper's New Monthly Magazine, No. 22, March, 1852, Volume 4.</title>
    </titleStmt>
    <editionStmt>
      <edition n="1">Edition 1</edition>
    </editionStmt>
    <publicationStmt>
      <publisher>Project Gutenberg</publisher>
      <date>June 26, 2010</date>
      <idno type="etext-no">32983</idno>
      <availability>
        <p>This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and
        with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it
        away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg
        License online at www.gutenberg.org/license</p>
      </availability>
    </publicationStmt>
    <sourceDesc>
      <bibl>
        Created electronically.
      </bibl>
    </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
  <encodingDesc>
  </encodingDesc>
  <profileDesc>
    <langUsage>
      <language id="en"></language>
      <language id="ru"></language>
      <language id="fr"></language>
      <language id="la"></language>
    </langUsage>
  </profileDesc>
  <revisionDesc>
    <change>
      <date value="2010-06-26">June 26, 2010</date>
      <respStmt>
        <name>
            Produced by David King and the Online
            Distributed Proofreading Team at &lt;http://www.pgdp.net/&gt;.
        </name>
      </respStmt>
      <item>Project Gutenberg TEI edition 1</item>
    </change>
  </revisionDesc>
</teiHeader>

<pgExtensions>
  <pgStyleSheet>
    .boxed           { x-class: boxed }
    .shaded          { x-class: shaded }
    .rules           { x-class: rules; rules: all }
    .indent          { margin-left: 2 }
    .bold            { font-weight: bold }
    .italic          { font-style: italic }
    .smallcaps       { font-variant: small-caps }
  </pgStyleSheet>

  <pgCharMap formats="txt.iso-8859-1">
    <char id="U0x2014">
      <charName>mdash</charName>
      <desc>EM DASH</desc>
      <mapping>--</mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2003">
      <charName>emsp</charName>
      <desc>EM SPACE</desc>
      <mapping>  </mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2026">
      <charName>hellip</charName>
      <desc>HORIZONTAL ELLIPSIS</desc>
      <mapping>...</mapping>
    </char>
  </pgCharMap>
</pgExtensions>

<text lang="en">
  <front>
    <div>
      <divGen type="pgheader" />
    </div>
    <div>
      <divGen type="encodingDesc" />
    </div>

    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">Harper's</p>
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">New Monthly Magazine</p>
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">No. XXII.&mdash;March, 1852.&mdash;Vol. IV.</p>
    </div>
    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <head>Contents</head>
      <divGen type="toc" />
    </div>

  </front>
<body>

<pb n='433'/><anchor id='Pg433'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Rodolphus.&mdash;A Franconia Story.<note place='foot'>Entered, according to Act
of Congress, in the year 1852, by Harper and Brothers, in the Clerk's Office of the
District Court of the Southern District of New York.</note> By Jacob Abbott.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>scene of the story</hi>.
</p>

<p>
Franconia, a village among the mountains at the North.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>principal persons</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Rodolphus</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Ellen Linn</hi>: his sister, residing with her aunt up the
glen.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Annie Linn</hi>, a younger sister.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Antoine Bianchinette</hi>, a French boy, at service at
Mrs. Henry's, a short distance from the village. He is
called generally by grown people Antonio, and by the
children Beechnut.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Malleville</hi>, Mrs. Henry's niece.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Alphonzo</hi>, called commonly Phonny, her son.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Mr. Keep</hi>, a lawyer.
</p>

<div>
<head>Chapter I.</head>

<p>
The manner in which indulgence and caprice
on the part of the parent, lead to the demoralization
and ruin of the child, is illustrated by the
history of Rodolphus.
</p>

<div>
<head>I. Bad Training.</head>

<p>
Rodolphus, whatever may have been his faults,
was certainly a very ingenious boy. When he
was very young he made a dove-house in the end
of his father's shed, all complete, with openings
for the doves to go in and out in front, and a door
for himself behind. He made a ladder, also, by
which he could mount up to the door. He did
all this with boards, which he obtained from an
old fence, for material, and an ax, and a wood
saw, for his only tools. His father, when he
came to see the dove-house, was much pleased
with the ingenuity which Rodolphus had displayed
in the construction of it&mdash;though he found
fault with him for taking away the boards from
the fence without permission. This, however,
gave Rodolphus very little concern.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p433.png' rend='width: 30%'>
    <head>The Rabbit House.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
When the dove house was completed, Rodolphus
obtained a pair of young doves from a
farmer who lived about a mile away, and put
them into a nest which he made for them in a
box, inside.
</p>

<p>
At another time not long after this, he
formed a plan for having some rabbits, and accordingly
he made a house for them in a corner
of the yard where he lived, a little below the village
of Franconia. He made the house out of an
old barrel. He sawed a hole in one side of the
barrel, near the bottom of it, as it stood up upon
one end&mdash;for a door, in order that the rabbits
might go in and out. He put a roof over the
top of it, to keep out the rain and snow. He
also placed a <emph>keg</emph> at the side of the barrel, by
way of wing into the building. There was a roof
over this wing, too, as well as over the main
body of the house, or, rather, there was a board
placed over it, like a roof, though in respect to
actual use this covering was more properly a <emph>lid</emph>
than roof, for the keg was intended to be used
as a <emph>store-room</emph>, to keep the provisions in, which
the rabbits were to eat. The board, therefore,
which formed the roof of the wing of the building,
was fastened at one edge, by leather hinges,
and so could be lifted up and let down again at
pleasure.
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus's mother was unwilling that he
should have any rabbits. She thought that such
animals in Rodolphus's possession would make
her a great deal of trouble. But Rodolphus said
that he <emph>would</emph> have some. At least, he said, he
would have <emph>one</emph>.
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus was standing in the path, in front
of the door of his mother's house, when he said
this. His mother was upon the great flat stone
which served for a step.
</p>

<p>
<q>But Beechnut asks a quarter of a dollar for
his rabbits.</q> said his mother, in an expostulating
tone, <q>and you have not got any money.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Ah, but I know where I can get some money,</q>
said Rodolphus.
</p>

<p>
<q>Where?</q> said his mother.
</p>

<pb n='434'/><anchor id='Pg434'/>

<p>
<q>Father will give it to me,</q> said Rodolphus.
</p>

<p>
<q>But I shall ask him not to give it to you,</q>
said his mother.
</p>

<p>
<q>I don't care,</q> said Rodolphus. <q>I can get
it, if you do.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>How?</q> asked his mother.
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus did not answer, but began to turn
summersets and cut capers on the grass, making
all sorts of antic gestures and funny grimaces toward
his mother. Mrs. Linn, for that was his
mother's name, laughed, and then went into the
house, saying, as she went, <q>Oh, Rolf, Rolf,
what a little rogue you are!</q>
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus's father was a workman, and he
was away from home almost all the day, though
sometimes Rodolphus himself went to the place
where he worked, to see him. When Mr. Linn
came home at night, sometimes he <emph>played</emph> with
Rodolphus, and sometimes he quarreled with
him: but he never really <emph>governed</emph> him.
</p>

<p>
For example, when Rodolphus was a very
little boy, he would climb up into his father's
lap, and begin to feel in his father's waistcoat
pockets for money. If his father directed him
not to do so, Rodolphus would pay no regard to
it. If he attempted to take Rodolphus's hands
away by force, Rodolphus would scream, and
struggle; and so his father, not wishing to make
a disturbance, would desist. If Mr. Linn frowned
and spoke sternly, Rodolphus would tickle him
and make him laugh.
</p>

<p>
Finally, Rodolphus would succeed in getting
a cent, perhaps, or some other small coin, from
his father's pocket, and would then climb down
and run away. The father would go after him,
and try all sorts of coaxings and threatenings, to
induce Rodolphus to bring the cent back&mdash;while
Mrs. Linn would look on, laughing, and saying,
perhaps, <q>Ah; let him have the cent, husband.
It is not much.</q>
</p>

<p>
Being encouraged thus by his mother's interposition,
Rodolphus would of course persevere,
and the contest would end at last by his keeping
the money. Then he would insist the next day,
on going into the little village close by, and spending
it for gingerbread. He would go, while eating
his gingerbread, to where his father was at
work, and hold it up to his father as in triumph&mdash;making
it a sort of trophy, as it were, of victory.
His father would shake his finger at him, laughing
at the same time, and saying, <q>Ah, Rolf!
Rolf! what a little rogue you are!</q>
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus, in fact, generally contrived to have
his own way in almost every thing. His mother
did not attempt to govern him; she tried to <emph>manage</emph>
him; but in the end it generally proved that
he managed her. In fact, whenever he was
engaged in any contest with his mother, his
father would usually take the boy's part, just
as his mother had done in his contests with
his father.
</p>

<p>
For instance, one winter evening when he was
quite a small boy, he was sitting in a corner playing
with some blocks. He was building a saw-mill.
His mother was at work in a little kitchen
which opened into the room where he was at
play. His father was sitting on the settle, by
the fire, reading a newspaper. The door was
open which led into the kitchen, and Rodolphus,
while he was at work upon his mill, watched
his mother's motions, for he knew that when she
had finished the work which she was doing, and
had swept up the room, she would come to put
him to bed. So Rodolphus went on building the
mill, and the bridge, and the flume which was to
convey the water to his mill, listening all the
time to the sounds in the kitchen, and looking
up from time to time, with a very watchful eye,
at the door.
</p>

<p>
At length he heard the sound of the sweeping,
and a few minutes afterward his mother appeared
at the door, coming in. Rodolphus dropped his
blocks, sprang to his feet, and ran round behind
the table&mdash;a round table which stood out in the
middle of the room.
</p>

<p>
<q>Now, Rodolphus,</q> said his mother, in a tone
of remonstrance, looking at the same time very
seriously at him. <q>It is time for you to go to
bed.</q>
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus said nothing, but began to dance
about, looking at his mother very intently all
the time, and moving this way and that, as she
moved, so as to keep himself exactly on the opposite
side of the table from her.
</p>

<p>
<q>Rodolphus!</q> said his mother, in a very stern
and commanding tone. <q>Come to me this minute.</q>
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus continued his dancing.
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus's mother was a very beautiful young
woman. Her dark glossy hair hung in curls
upon her neck.
</p>

<p>
When she found that it did no good to command
Rodolphus, the stern expression of her
face changed into a smile, and she said,
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, if you won't come, I shall have to
catch you, that's all.</q>
</p>

<p>
So saying, she ran round the table to catch
him. Rodolphus ran too. His mother turned
first one way and then the other, but she could
not get any nearer to the fugitive. Rodolphus
kept always on the farthest side of the table
from her. Presently Mr. Linn himself looked
up and began to cheer Rodolphus, and encourage
him to run; and once when Mrs. Linn nearly
caught him and he yet escaped, Mr. Linn clapped
his hands in token of his joy.
</p>

<p>
Mrs. Linn was now discouraged: so she stopped,
and looking sternly at Rodolphus again, she
said,
</p>

<p>
<q>Now, Rodolphus, you <emph>must</emph> come to me.
Come this minute. If you don't come, I shall
certainly punish you.</q> She spoke these words
with a great deal of force and emphasis, in order
to make Rodolphus think that she was really in
earnest. But Rodolphus did not believe that she
was in earnest, and so it was evident that he had
no intention to obey.
</p>

<p>
Mrs. Linn then thought of another plan for
catching the fugitive, which was to push the
table along to one side of the room, or up into
a corner, and get Rodolphus out from behind it
in that way. So she began to push. Rodolphus
<pb n='435'/><anchor id='Pg435'/>
immediately began to resist her attempt, by pushing
against the table himself, on the other side.
His mother was the strongest, however, and she
succeeded in gradually working the table, with
Rodolphus before it, over to the further side of
the room, notwithstanding all the efforts that he
made to prevent it. When he found at last that
he was likely to be caught, he left the table and
ran behind the settle where his father was reading.
His mother ran after him and caught him
in the corner.
</p>

<p>
She attempted to take him, but Rodolphus
began to struggle and scream, and to shake his
shoulders when she took hold of them, evincing
his determination not to go with her. At the
same time he called out, <q>Father! father!</q>
</p>

<p>
His father looked around at the end of the
settle to see what was the matter.
</p>

<p>
<q>He won't let me put him to bed,</q> said Mrs.
Linn, <q>and it was time half an hour ago.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, let him sit up a little while longer if he
likes,</q> said Mr. Linn. <q>It's of no use to make
him cry.</q>
</p>

<p>
Mrs. Linn reluctantly left Rodolphus, murmuring
to herself that he ought to go to bed.
Very soon, she said, he would be asleep upon
the floor. <q>I would <emph>make</emph> him go,</q> she added,
<q>only if he cries and makes a noise, it will wake
Annie.</q>
</p>

<p>
In fact Annie was beginning to move a little
in the cradle then. The cradle in which Annie
was sleeping was by the side of the fire, opposite
to the settle. Mrs. Linn went to it, to rock it,
so that Annie might go to sleep again, and Rodolphus
returned victorious to his mill.
</p>

<p>
These are specimens of the ways in which
Rodolphus used to manage his father and mother,
while he was quite young. He became more
and more accomplished and capable in attaining
his ends as he grew older, and finally succeeded
in establishing the ascendency of his own will
over that of his father and mother, almost entirely.
</p>

<p>
He was about four years old when the incidents
occurred which have been just described.
When he was about five years old, he used to
begin to go and play alone down by the water.
His father's house was near the water, just below
the bridge. There were some high rocks
near the shore, and a large flat rock rising out
of the water. Rodolphus liked very much to go
down to this flat rock and play upon it. His
mother was very much afraid to have him go
upon this rock, for the water was deep near it,
and she was afraid that he might fall in. But
Rodolphus would go.
</p>

<p>
The road which led to Mr. Linn's from the
village, passed round the rocks above, at some
distance above the bank of the stream. There
was a fence along upon the outer side of the
road, with a little gate where Rodolphus used to
come through. From the gate there was a path,
with steps, which led down to the water. At
one time, in order to prevent Rodolphus from
going down there, Mr. Linn fastened up the
gate. Then Rodolphus would climb over the
fence. So his father, finding that it did no good
to fasten up the gate, opened it again.
</p>

<p>
Not content with going down to the flat stone
contrary to his mother's command, Rodolphus
would sometimes threaten to go there and jump
off, by way of terrifying her, when his mother
would not give him what he wanted. This would
frighten Mrs. Linn very much, and she would
usually yield at once to his demands, in order to
avert the danger. Finally she persuaded her
husband to wheel several loads of stones there
and fill up the deep place, after which she was
less uneasy about Rodolphus's jumping in.
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus was about ten years old when he
made his rabbit house. Annie, his sister, had
grown up too. She was two years younger than
Rodolphus, and of course was eight. She was
beautiful like her mother. She had blue eyes,
and her dark hair hung in curls about her neck.
She was a gentle and docile girl, and was often
much distressed to see how disobedient and rebellious
Rodolphus was toward his father and
mother.
</p>

<p>
She went out to see the rabbit house which
Rodolphus had made, and she liked it very much
See wished that her mother would allow them
to have a rabbit to put into it, and she said so,
as she stood looking at it, with her hands behind
her.
</p>

<p>
<q>I am sorry, that mother is not willing that
you should have a rabbit,</q> said she.
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, never mind that,</q> said Rodolphus, <q>I'll
have one for all that, you may depend.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
That evening when Mr. Linn came home from
his work, he took a seat near the door, where he
could look out upon the little garden. His mother
was busy setting the table for tea.
</p>

<p>
<q>Father,</q> said Rodolphus, <q>I wish you would
give me a quarter of a dollar.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>What for,</q> said Mr. Linn.
</p>

<p>
<q>To buy a rabbit,</q> said Rodolphus.
</p>

<p>
<q>No,</q> said his mother, <q>I wish you would
not give him any money. I have told him that
I don't wish him to have any rabbits.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes,</q> said Rodolphus, speaking to his father.
<q>Do, it only costs a quarter of a dollar to
get one, and I have got the house all ready for
him.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, no, Rolfy,</q> said his father. <q>I would
not have any rabbits. They are good for nothing
but to gnaw off all the bark and buds in
the garden.</q>
</p>

<p>
Here there followed a long argument between
Rodolphus on the one side, and his father and
mother on the other, they endeavoring in every
possible way to persuade him that a rabbit would
be a trouble and not a pleasure. Of course, Rodolphus
was not to be convinced. His father
however, refused to give him any money, and
Rodolphus ceased to ask for it. His mother
thought that he submitted to his disappointment
with very extraordinary good-humor. But the
fact was, he was not submitting to disappointment
at all. He had formed another plan.
</p>

<p>
He began playing with Annie about the yard
<pb n='436'/><anchor id='Pg436'/>
and garden, saying no more, and apparently
thinking no more about his rabbit, for some time.
At last he came up to his father's side and said,
</p>

<p>
<q>Father, will you lend me your keys?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>What do you want my keys for?</q> asked his
father.
</p>

<p>
<q>I want to whistle with them,</q> said Rodolphus.
<q>Annie is my dog, and I want to whistle
to her.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No,</q> said his father, <q>you will lose them.
You must whistle with your mouth.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But I can't whistle with my mouth, Annie
makes me laugh so much. I must have the
keys.</q>
</p>

<p>
So saying, Rodolphus began to feel in his father's
pockets for the keys. Mr. Linn resisted
his efforts a little, remonstrating with him all the
time, and saying that he could not let his keys
go. Rodolphus, however, persevered, and finally
succeeded in getting the keys, and running
away with them.
</p>

<p>
His father called him to come back, but he
would not come.
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus whistled in one of the keys a few
minutes, playing with Annie, and then, after a
little while, he said to her, in a whisper, and in
a very mysterious manner,
</p>

<p>
<q>Annie, come with me!</q>
</p>

<p>
So saying, he went round the corner of the
house, and there entering the house by means
of a door which led into the kitchen, he passed
through into the room where his father was sitting,
without being seen by his father. He
walked very softly as he went, too, and so the
sound of his footsteps was not heard. Annie remained
at the door when Rodolphus went in.
She asked him as he went in what he was going
to do, but Rodolphus only answered by saying in
a whisper, <q>Hush! Wait here till I come back.</q>
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus crept slowly up to a bureau which
stood behind a door. There was a certain drawer
in this bureau where he knew that his father
kept his money. He was going to open this
drawer and see if he could not find a quarter of a
dollar. He succeeded in putting the key into the
key-hole, and in unlocking the drawer without
making much noise. He made a little noise, it
is true, and though his father heard it as he sat
at the door looking out toward the garden, his
attention was not attracted by it. He thought,
perhaps, that it was Rodolphus's mother, doing
something in that corner of the room.
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus pulled the drawer open as gently
and noiselessly as he could. In a corner of the
drawer he saw a bag. He knew that it was his
father's money-bag. He pulled it open and put
his hand in, looking round at the same time
stealthily, to see whether his father was observing
him.
</p>

<p>
Just at that instant, Mr. Linn looked round.
</p>

<p>
<q>Rolf, you rogue,</q> said he, <q>what are you doing'</q>
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus did not answer, but seized a small
handful of money and ran. His father started up
and pursued him. Among the coins which Rodolphus
had seized there was a quarter of a dollar,
and there were besides this several smaller
silver coins, and two or three cents. Rodolphus
took the quarter of a dollar in one hand, as he ran,
and threw the other money down upon the kitchen
floor. His father stopped to pick up this money,
and by this means Rodolphus gained distance.
He ran out from the kitchen into the yard, and
from the yard into the road&mdash;his father pursuing
him. Rodolphus went on at the top of his speed,
filling the air with shouts of laughter.
</p>

<p>
He scrambled up a steep path which led to the
top of the rocks; his father stopped below.
</p>

<p>
<q>Ah, Rolfy!</q> said his father, in an entreating
sort of tone. <q>Give me back that money; that's
a good boy.</q>
</p>

<p>
Rolfy did not answer, but stood upon a pinnacle
of the rock, holding one of his hands behind him.
</p>

<p>
<q>Did you throw down all the money that you
took,</q> said his father.
</p>

<p>
<q>No,</q> said Rodolphus.
</p>

<p>
<q>How much have you got now?</q> said his father.
</p>

<p>
<q>A quarter of a dollar,</q> said the boy.
</p>

<p>
<q>Come down, then, and give it to me,</q> said
his father. <q>Come down this minute.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No,</q> said Rodolphus, <q>I want it to buy my
rabbit.</q>
</p>

<p>
Mr. Linn paused a moment, looking perplexed,
as if uncertain what to do.
</p>

<p>
At length he said,
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes, bring back the money, Rolfy, that's a
good boy, and to-morrow I'll go and buy you a
rabbit myself.</q>
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus knew that he could not trust to such
a promise, and so he would not come. Mr. Linn
seemed more perplexed than ever. He began to
be seriously angry with the boy, and he resolved,
that as soon as he could catch him, he would
punish him severely: but he saw that it was useless
to attempt to pursue him.
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus looked toward the house, and there
he saw his mother standing at the kitchen-door,
laughing. He held up the quarter of a dollar
toward her, between his thumb and finger, and
laughed too.
</p>

<p>
<q>If you don't come down, I shall come up there
after you,</q> said Mr. Linn.
</p>

<p>
<q>You can't catch me, if you do,</q> said Rodolphus.
</p>

<p>
Mr. Linn began to ascend the rocks. Rodolphus,
however, who was, of course, more nimble
than his father, went on faster than his father
could follow. He passed over the highest portion,
of the hill, and then clambered down upon
the other side, to the road. He crossed the road,
and then began climbing down the bank, toward
the shore. He had often been up and down that
path before, and he accordingly descended very
quick and very easily.
</p>

<p>
When he reached the shore, he went out to
the flat rock, and there stopped and turned round
to look at his father. Mr. Linn was standing on
the brink of the cliff, preparing to come down.
</p>

<p>
<q>Stop,</q> said Rodolphus to his father. <q>If
you come down, I will throw the quarter of a
dollar into the water.</q>
</p>

<pb n='437'/><anchor id='Pg008'/>

<p>
So saying, Rodolphus extended his hand as if
he were about to throw the money off, into the
stream.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p437.png' rend='width: 40%'>
    <head>The Pursuit.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Mrs. Linn and Annie had come out from the
house, to see how Mr. Linn's pursuit of the fugitive
would end; but instead of following Rodolphus
and his father over the rocks, they had
come across the road to the little gate, where
they could see the flat rock on which Rodolphus
was standing, and his father on the cliffs above.
Mrs. Linn stood in the gateway. Annie had
come forward, and was standing in the path,
at the head of the steps. When she saw Rodolphus
threatening to throw the money into the
river, she seemed very much concerned and distressed.
She called out to her brother, in a very
earnest manner.
</p>

<p>
<q>Rodolphus! Rodolphus! That is my father's
quarter of a dollar. You <emph>must not</emph> throw
it away.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I <emph>will</emph> throw it away,</q> said Rodolphus, <q>and
I'll jump into the water myself, in the deepest
place that I can find, if he won't let me have it
to buy my rabbit with.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I would let him have it, husband,</q> said Mrs.
Linn, <q>if he wants it so very much. I don't
care much about it, on the whole. I don't think
the rabbit will be any great trouble.</q>
</p>

<p>
When Rodolphus heard his mother say this,
he considered the case as decided, and he walked
off from the flat rock to the shore, and from the
shore up the path to his mother. There was
some further conversation between Rodolphus
and his parents in respect to the rabbit, but it
was finally concluded that the rabbit should be
bought, and Rodolphus was allowed to keep the
quarter of a dollar accordingly.
</p>

<p>
Such was the way in which Rodolphus was
brought up in his childhood. It is not surprising
that he came in the end to be a very bad boy.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>II. Ellen.</head>

<p>
The next morning after Rodolphus had obtained
his quarter of a dollar in the manner we
have described, he proposed to Annie to go with
him to buy his rabbit. It would not be very far,
he said.
</p>

<p>
<q>I should like to go very much,</q>
said Annie, <q>if my mother will let
me.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>O, she will let you,</q> said Rodolphus,
<q><emph>I</emph> can get her to let you.</q>
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus waited till his father had
gone away after breakfast, before asking
his mother to let Annie go with
him. He was afraid that his father
might make some objection to the
plan. After his father had gone, he
went to ask his mother.
</p>

<p>
At first she said very decidedly
that Annie could not go.
</p>

<p>
<q>Why not?</q> asked Rodolphus.
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, I could not trust her with
you so far,</q> replied his mother, <q>she
is too little.</q>
</p>

<p>
There followed a long and earnest
debate between Rodolphus and his
mother, which ended at last in her
consent that Annie should go.
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus found a basket in the
shed, which he took to bring his rabbit home in.
He put a cloth into the basket, and also a long
piece of twine. The cloth was to spread over
the top of the basket, and the twine to tie round
it, in order to keep the rabbit in.
</p>

<p>
When Rodolphus was ready to go, his mother
told him that she was afraid that he might lose
his quarter of a dollar on the way, and in order
to make it more secure, she proposed to tie it up
for him in the corner of a pocket handkerchief.
</p>

<p>
<q>Why, that would not do any good, mother,</q>
said Rodolphus, <q>for then I should only lose
handkerchief and all.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No,</q> replied his mother. <q>You would not
be so likely to lose the handkerchief. The handkerchief
could not be shaken out of your pocket
so easily, nor get out through any small hole.
Besides, if you should by any chance lose the
money, you could find it again much more readily
if it was tied up in a handkerchief, that being so
large and easily seen.</q>
</p>

<p>
So Mrs. Linn tied the money in the corner of
a pocket handkerchief, and then put the handkerchief
itself in Rodolphus's pocket.
</p>

<p>
The place where Rodolphus lived was in Franconia,
just below the village. There was a bridge
in the middle of the village with a dam across
the stream just above it. There were mills
near the dam. Just below the dam the water
was very rapid.
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus walked along with Annie till he
came to the bridge. On the way, as soon as he
got out of sight of the house, he pulled the handkerchief
out of his pocket, and began untying
the knot.
</p>

<p>
<q>What are you going to do?</q> asked Annie.
</p>

<p>
<q>I am going to take the money out of this
pocket handkerchief,</q> said Rodolphus.
</p>

<p>
So saying he untied the knot, and when he had
got the money out he put the money itself in one
<pb n='438'/><anchor id='Pg438'/>
pocket and the handkerchief in the other, and
then walked along again.
</p>

<p>
When Rodolphus reached the bridge he turned
to go over it. Annie was at first afraid to go
over it. She wanted to go some other way.
</p>

<p>
<q>There <emph>is</emph> no other way,</q> said Rodolphus.
</p>

<p>
<q>Where is it that you are going to get the
rabbit?</q> asked Annie.
</p>

<p>
<q>To Beechnut's,</q> said Rodolphus.
</p>

<p>
<q>Beechnut's,</q> repeated Annie, <q>that's a funny
name.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Why, his real name is Antonio,</q> said Rodolphus.
<q>But, come, walk along; there is no
danger in going over the bridge.</q>
</p>

<p>
Notwithstanding her brother's assurances that
there was no danger, Annie was very much afraid
of the bridge. She however walked along, but
she kept as near the middle of the roadway as
she could. Sometimes she came to wide cracks
in the floor of the bridge, through which she
could see the water foaming and tumbling over
the rocks far below. There was a sort of balustrade
or railing each side of the bridge, but it
was very open. Rodolphus went to this railing
and putting his head between the bars of it,
looked down.
</p>

<p>
Annie begged him to come back. But he said
he wished to look and see if there were any
fishes down there in the water. In the mean
time Annie walked along very carefully, taking
long steps over the cracks, and choosing her
way with great caution. Presently she heard a
noise behind her, and looking round she saw a
wagon coming. This frightened her more than
ever. So she began to run as fast as she could
run, and very soon she got safely across the
bridge. When she reached the land, she went
out to the side of the road to let the wagon go
by, and sat down there to wait for her brother.
</p>

<p>
Presently Rodolphus came. Annie left her
seat and went back into the road to meet him,
and so they walked along together.
</p>

<p>
<q>If his name is truly Antonio,</q> said Annie,
<q>why don't you call him Antonio?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, I don't know,</q> said Rodolphus, <q>the
boys always call him Beechnut.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q><emph>I</emph> mean to call him Antonio,</q> said Annie, <q>if
I see him.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, you <emph>will</emph> see him,</q> said Rodolphus,
<q>for we go right where he lives.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Where does he live?</q> asked Annie.
</p>

<p>
<q>He lives at Phonny's,</q> said Rodolphus.
</p>

<p>
<q>And where is Phonny's?</q> asked Annie.
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, it is a house up here by the valley.
Didn't you ever go there?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No,</q> said Annie.
</p>

<p>
<q>It is a very pleasant house,</q> said Rodolphus.
<q>There is a river in front of it, and a pier, and
a boat. There is a boat-house, too. There used
to be a little girl there, too&mdash;just about as big as
you.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>What was her name?</q> asked Annie.
</p>

<p>
<q>Malleville,</q> replied Rodolphus.
</p>

<p>
<q>I have heard about Malleville,</q> said Annie.
</p>

<p>
<q>How did you hear about her?</q> asked Rodolphus.
</p>

<p>
<q>My sister Ellen told me about her,</q> said
Annie.
</p>

<p>
<q>We can go and see Ellen,</q> said Rodolphus,
<q>after we have got the rabbit.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well,</q> said Annie, <q>I should like to go and
see her very much.</q>
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus and Annie had a sister Ellen. She
was two years older than Rodolphus. Rodolphus
was at this time about ten. Ellen was twelve.
Antonio was fourteen. Ellen did not live at
home. She lived with her aunt. She went to
live with her aunt when she was about eight
years old. Her aunt lived in a small farm-house
among the mountains, and when Ellen was about
eight years old, she was taken sick, and so Ellen
went to the house to help take care of her.
</p>

<p>
Ellen was a very quiet and still, and at the
same time a very diligent and capable girl. She
was very useful to her aunt in her sickness. She
took care of the fire, and kept the room in order;
and she set a little table very neatly at the bedside,
when her aunt got well enough to take food.
</p>

<p>
It was a long time before her aunt was well
enough to leave her bed, and then she could not
sit up much, and she could not walk about at all.
She could only lie upon a sort of sofa, which her
husband made for her in his shop. So Ellen remained
to take care of her from week to week,
until at last her aunt's house became her home
altogether.
</p>

<p>
Ellen liked to live at her aunt's very much,
for the house was quiet, and orderly, and well-managed,
and every thing went smoothly and
pleasantly there. At home, on the other hand,
every thing was always in confusion, and Rodolphus
made so much noise and uproar, and
encroached so much on the peace and comfort
of the family by his self-will and his domineering
temper, that Ellen was always uneasy and unhappy
when she was at her mother's. She liked
to be at her aunt's, therefore, better; and as her
aunt liked <emph>her</emph>, she gradually came to make that
her home. Rodolphus used frequently to go and
see her, and even Annie went sometimes.
</p>

<p>
Annie was very much pleased with the plan of
going now to make Ellen a visit. They walked
quietly along the road, talking of this plan, when
Annie suddenly called out;
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, Rodolphus, look there!</q>
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus looked, and saw a drove of cattle
coming along the road. It was a very large
drove, and it filled up the road almost entirely.
</p>

<p>
<q>Who cares for that?</q> said Rodolphus.
</p>

<p>
Annie seemed to care for it very much. She
ran out to the side of the road.
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus walked quietly after her, saying,
<q>Don't be afraid, Annie. You can climb up on
the fence, if you like, till they get by.</q>
</p>

<p>
There was a large stump by the side of the
fence, at the place where Rodolphus and Annie
approached it, and Rodolphus, running to it, said,
<q>Quick, Annie, quick! climb up on this stump.</q>
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus climbed up on the stump, and then
helped Annie up after him. They had, however,
but just got their footing upon it, when Rodolphus
looked down at his feet and saw a hornet
<pb n='439'/><anchor id='Pg439'/>
crawling out of a crevice in the side of the stump.
<q>Ah, Annie, Annie! a hornet's nest! a hornet's
nest!</q> exclaimed Rodolphus; <q>we must
run.</q>
</p>

<p>
So saying, Rodolphus climbed down from the
stump, on the side opposite to where he had seen
the hornet come out, and then helped Annie down.
</p>

<p>
<q>We must run across to the other side of the
road,</q> said he.
</p>

<p>
So saying, he hurried back into the road again,
leading Annie by the hand. They found, however,
that they were too late to gain the fence on
the other side, for several of the cattle had advanced
along by the green bank on that side so
far that the fence was lined with them, and Rodolphus
saw at a glance, that he could not get
near it.
</p>

<p>
<q>Never mind, Annie,</q> said Rodolphus, <q>we
will stay here, right in the middle of the road.
Stand behind me, and I will keep the cattle off
with my basket.</q>
</p>

<p>
So Annie took her stand behind Rodolphus,
in the middle of the road, while Rodolphus, by
swinging his basket to and fro, toward the cattle
as they came on, made them separate to the right
and left, and pass by on each side. Rodolphus,
besides waving his basket at the cattle, shouted
to them in a very stern and authoritative manner,
saying, <q>Hie! Whoh! Hie-up, there!
Ho!</q> The cattle were slow to turn out&mdash;but
they did turn out, just before they came to where
Rodolphus and Annie were standing&mdash;crowding
and jamming each other in great confusion. The
herd closed together again as soon as they had
passed the children, so that for a time Rodolphus
and Annie stood in a little space in
the road, with the monstrous oxen
all around them.
</p>

<p>
At length the herd all passed safely
by, and then Rodolphus and Annie
went on. After walking along a little
farther, they came to the bank of a
river. The road lay along the bank
of this river. There was a smooth
sandy beach down by the water. Rodolphus
and Annie went down there
a few minutes to ploy. There was
an old raft there. It was floating in
the water, but was fastened by a rope
to a stake in the sand.
</p>

<p>
<q>Ah, here is a raft, Annie,</q> said
Rodolphus. <q>I'll tell you what we
will do. We will go the rest of the
way by water, on this raft. I'm tired
of walking so far.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, no,</q> said Annie, <q>I'm afraid
to go on that raft. It will sink.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>O, no,</q> said Rodolphus, <q>it will
not sink. See.</q> So saying, he stepped
upon the raft, to show Annie how
stable it was.
</p>

<p>
<q>I'll get a block,</q> he continued,
<q>for you to sit on.</q>
</p>

<p>
Annie was very much afraid of the
raft, though she was not quite so much
afraid of it as she had been of the
bridge, because the bridge was very high up
above the water, and there was, consequently
as she imagined, danger of a fall. Besides the
water where the raft was lying, was smooth and
still, while that beneath the bridge was a roaring
torrent. Finally, Annie allowed herself to
be persuaded to get upon the raft. Rodolphus
found a block lying upon the shore, and he put
that upon the raft for Annie to sit upon. When
Annie was seated, Rodolphus stepped upon the
raft himself, and with a long pole he pushed it
out from the shore, while Annie balanced herself
as well as she could upon the block.
</p>

<p>
The water was not very deep, and Rodolphus
could push the raft along very easily, by setting
the end of his pole against the bottom Annie
sat upon her block very still. It happened, however,
unfortunately, that the place where Antonio
lived was up the stream, not down, and Rodolphus
found that though he could move his raft very
easily round and round, and even back and forth,
he could not get forward much on his way, on
account of the force of the current, which was
strong against him. He advanced a little way,
however, and then he began to be tired of so difficult
a navigation.
</p>

<p>
<q>I don't think we shall go very far, on the
raft,</q> said he, to Annie, <q>there is such a strong
tide.</q>
</p>

<p>
Just then Rodolphus began to look very intently
into the water before him. He thought he
saw a pickerel. He was just going to attempt to
spear him with his pole, when his attention was
arrested by hearing Annie call out, <q>Oh, Rolfy!
Rolfy! the raft is all coming to pieces</q>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p439.png' rend='width: 40%'>
    <head>The Raft.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<pb n='440'/><anchor id='Pg440'/>

<p>
Rodolphus looked round, and saw that the
boards of which the raft had been made, were
separating from each other at the end of the raft
where Annie was sitting, and one of the boards
was shooting out entirely.
</p>

<p>
<q>So it is,</q> said Rodolphus. <q>Why didn't
they nail it together? You sit still, and I will
push in to the shore.</q>
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus attempted to push in to the shore,
but in the strenuous efforts which he made for
that purpose, he stepped about upon the raft irregularly
and in such a manner, as to make the
boards separate more and more. At length the
water began to come up around Annie's feet, and
Rodolphus alarmed at this, hurriedly directed her
to stand up, on the block. Annie tried to do so,
but before she effected her purpose, the raft
seemed evidently about going to pieces. It had,
however, by this time got very near the shore,
so Rodolphus changed his orders, and called out,
<q>Jump, Annie, jump!</q>
</p>

<p>
Annie jumped; but the part of the raft on
which she was standing gave way under her
feet, and she came down into the water. The
water was not very deep. It came up, however,
almost to Annie's knees. Rodolphus himself
had leaped over to the shore, and so had, himself,
escaped a wetting. He took Annie by the
hand, and led her also out to the dry land.
</p>

<p>
Annie began to cry. Rodolphus soothed and
quieted her as well as he could. He took off her
stockings and shoes. He poured the water out
of the shoes, and wrung out the stockings. He
also wrung out Annie's dress as far as possible.
He told her not to mind it; her clothes would
soon get dry. It was all the fault of the boys,
he said, who made the raft, for not nailing it together.
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus had had presence of mind enough
to seize his basket, when he leaped ashore, so that
that was safe. The raft, however, went all to
pieces, and the fragments of it floated away down
the stream.
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus and Annie then resumed their journey.
Rodolphus talked fast to Annie, and told
her a great many amusing stories, to divert her
mind from the misfortune which had happened
to them. He charged her not to tell her mother,
when she got home, that she had been in the water,
and made her promise that she would not.
</p>

<p>
At length they came to a large house which
stood back from the road a little way, at the entrance
to a valley. This was the house, Rodolphus
said, where Beechnut lived. Rodolphus opened
a great gate, and he and Annie went into the yard.
</p>

<p>
<q>I think that Beechnut is in some of the barns,
or sheds, or somewhere,</q> said Rodolphus.
</p>

<p>
So he and Annie went to the barns and sheds.
There was a horse standing in one of the sheds,
harnessed to a wagon, but there were no signs
of Beechnut.
</p>

<p>
<q>Perhaps he is in the yard,</q> said Rodolphus.
</p>

<p>
So Rodolphus led the way through a shed to
a sort of back-yard, where there was a plank-walk,
with lilac-bushes and other shrubbery on
one side of it. Rodolphus and Annie walked
along upon the planks. Presently, they came to
a place where there was a ladder standing up
against the house.
</p>

<p>
<q>Ah!</q> said Rodolphus, <q>he is upon the house.
Here is the ladder. I think he is doing something
on the house. I mean to go and see.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No,</q> said Annie, <q>you must not go up on
such a high place.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, this is not a very high ladder,</q> said Rodolphus.
So saying he began to go up. Annie
stood below, looking up to him as he ascended,
and feeling great apprehension lest he should
fall.
</p>

<p>
The top of the ladder reached up considerably
above the top of the house, and Rodolphus told
Annie that he was not going to the top of the
ladder, but only high enough to see if Beechnut
was on the house. He told her, too, that if she
walked back toward the garden gate, perhaps
<emph>she</emph> could see too. Annie accordingly walked
back, and looking upward all the time, she presently
saw a young man who she supposed was
Beechnut, doing something to the top of one of
the chimneys. By this time Rodolphus had
reached the eaves of the house, in climbing up the
ladder, and he came in sight of Beechnut, too.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p440.png' rend='width: 30%'>
    <head>Up The Ladder.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
<q>Hie-yo! Dolphin!</q> said Beechnut, <q>is that
you!</q>
</p>

<p>
Beechnut often called Rodolphus, Dolphin.
</p>

<p>
<q>May I come up where you are?</q> said Rodolphus.
</p>

<p>
<q>No,</q> said Beechnut.
</p>

<p>
When Rodolphus heard this answer, he remained
quietly where he was upon the ladder.
</p>

<p>
<q>What are you doing?</q> said Rodolphus.
</p>

<p>
<q>Putting a wire netting over the chimney,</q>
said Beechnut.
</p>

<p>
<q>What for!</q> asked Rodolphus.
</p>

<pb n='441'/><anchor id='Pg441'/>

<p>
<q>To keep the chimney-swallows from getting
in,</q> said Beechnut.
</p>

<p>
<q>Are you coming down pretty soon?</q> asked
Rodolphus.
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes,</q> said Beechnut. <q>Go down the ladder
and wait till I come.</q>
</p>

<p>
So Rodolphus went down the ladder again to
Annie.
</p>

<p>
<q>What is the reason,</q> said Annie, <q>that you
obey Beechnut so much better than you do my
father?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, I don't know,</q> said Rodolphus. <q>He
makes me, I suppose.</q>
</p>

<p>
It was true that Beechnut made Rodolphus
obey him&mdash;that is, in all cases where he was
under any obligation to obey him. One day,
when he first became acquainted with Beechnut,
he went out upon the pond in Beechnut's boat.
He wished to row, but Beechnut preferred that
some other boy should row, and directed Rodolphus
to sit down upon one of the thwarts. Rodolphus
would not do this, but was determined
to row, and he attempted to take away one of
the oars by force. Beechnut immediately turned
the head of the boat toward the shore, and when
he reached the shore he directed four of the
strongest boys to put Rodolphus out upon the
sand, and then when they had done this he sailed
away in the boat again. Rodolphus took up
clubs and stones, and began to throw them at
the boat. Beechnut came back again, and seizing
Rodolphus, he tied his hands behind him
with a strong cord. When he was thus secured
Beechnut said to him,
</p>

<p>
<q>Now, you may have your choice of two
things. You may stay here till we come back
from our excursion, and then, if you seem pretty
peaceable, I will untie you. Or you may go
home now, as you are, with your hands tied behind
you in disgrace.</q>
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus concluded to remain where he was;
for he was well aware that if he were to go home
through the village with his hands tied behind
him, every body would know that the tying was
one of Beechnut's punishments, and that it had
not been resorted to without good reason. Some
of the boys thought that after this occurrence
Beechnut would not be willing to have Rodolphus
go with them again in the boat, but Beechnut
said <q>Yes; he may go with us whenever he
pleases. I don't mind having a rebel on board
at all. I know exactly what to do with rebels.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But it is a great trouble,</q> said one of the
boys, <q>to have them on board.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Not at all,</q> said Beechnut, <q>on the other
hand it is a pleasure to me to discipline them.</q>
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus very soon found that it was useless
to resist Beechnut's will, in any case where
Beechnut had the right to control; and so he
soon formed the habit of obeying him. He liked
Beechnut too, very much. He liked him in fact,
all the better, on account of his firmness and decision.
</p>

<p>
When Beechnut came down from the housetop,
Rodolphus told him he had come to get a
rabbit, and at the same time held out the quarter
of a dollar to view.
</p>

<p>
<q>Where did you get the money?</q> said Beechnut.
</p>

<p>
<q>My father gave it to me,</q> said Rodolphus.
</p>

<p>
<q>No,</q> said Annie, very earnestly, <q>my father
did not give it to you. You took it away from
him.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But he gave it to me afterward,</q> said Rodolphus.
</p>

<p>
Beechnut inquired what this meant, and Annie
explained to him, as well as she could, the manner
in which Rodolphus had obtained his money.
Beechnut then said, that he would not take the
quarter of a dollar. The money was not honestly
come by, he said. It was not voluntarily
given to Rodolphus, and therefore was not honestly
his. <q>The money was stolen,</q> said he,
<q>and I will not have any stolen money for my
rabbits. I would rather give you a rabbit for
nothing.</q>
</p>

<p>
This, Beechnut said finally, he would do. <q>I
will <emph>give</emph> you a rabbit,</q> said he, <q>for the present,
and whenever you get a quarter of a dollar, which
is honestly your own, you may come and pay for
it, if you please, and if not, not. But don't bring
me any money which is not truly your own.
And carry that quarter of a dollar back and give
it to your father.</q>
</p>

<p>
So saying, Beechnut led the way, and Rodolphus
and Annie followed him, into one of the
barns. They walked along a narrow passageway,
between a hay-mow on one side, and a row
of stalls for cattle on the other. Then they turned
and passed through an open room, and finally
came to a place which Beechnut called a bay.
Here there was a little pen, with a house in it,
for the rabbits, and a hole at one side where the
rabbits could run in under the barn. Beechnut
called <q>Benny! Benny! Benny!</q> and immediately
several rabbits came running out from the hole.
</p>

<p>
<q>There,</q> said Beechnut, <q>which one will
you have?</q>
</p>

<p>
The children began immediately to examine
the different rabbits, and to talk very fast and
very eagerly about them. Finally, Rodolphus
decided in favor of a gray one, though there was
one which was perfectly white, that Annie seemed
to prefer. Beechnut said that he would give Rodolphus
the gray one.
</p>

<p>
<q>As to the white one,</q> said he, <q>I am going
to let you take it, Annie, for Ellen. I can't give
it to <emph>you</emph>. I give it to Ellen; but, perhaps, she
will let you carry it home with you, and take care
of it for her, and so keep it with Rodolphus's.</q>
</p>

<p>
Annie seemed very much pleased with this
plan, and so the two rabbits were caught and
put into the basket. The cloth was then tied
over them, and Rodolphus and Annie prepared
to go away.
</p>

<p>
<q>But, stop,</q> said Beechnut, <q>I am going directly
by your aunt's in my wagon, and I can
give you a ride.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well,</q> said Annie, dancing about and clapping
her hands. It was very seldom that Annie
had an opportunity to take a ride.
<pb n='442'/><anchor id='Pg442'/>
She ran to the wagon. Rodolphus followed
her slowly, carrying the basket. Beechnut helped
in the two children, and then got in himself, and
took his seat between them. Rodolphus held the
basket between his knees, peeping in under the
cloth, now and then, to see if the rabbits were
safe.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p442.png' rend='width: 40%'>
    <head>The Yard at Mr. Randon's.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
The party traveled on by a winding and very
pleasant road among the mountains, for about a
mile, and at length they drove up to the door of
a pleasant little farm-house in a sort of dell.
There was a high hill behind it&mdash;overhung with
forest trees. There was a spacious yard at the
end of the house, with ducks, and geese, and
chickens, in the back part of it. There was a
large dog lying asleep on the great flat stone
step when the wagon came up, but when he
heard the wagon coming, awoke, opened his eyes,
got up, and walked away. There was a well in
the middle of the yard. Beechnut rode round
the well, and drove up to the door. Ellen was
sitting at the window. As soon as she saw the
wagon, she got up and ran to the door.
</p>

<p>
<q>How do you do, Ellen!</q> said Beechnut.
</p>

<p>
<q>How do you do, Antonio!</q> said Ellen, <q>I
am much obliged to you for bringing my brother
and sister to see me.</q>
</p>

<p>
So saying, she came to the wagon and helped
Annie out. Rodolphus, who was on the other
side of Beechnut, then handed her his basket,
saying, <q>Here, Ellen, take this very carefully.
There are two rabbits in it, and one of them is
for you.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>For me,</q> said Ellen.
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes,</q> said Annie, <q>only I am to take care
of it for you.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Good-by,</q> said Beechnut. He was just
beginning, as he said this, to drive the wagon
away.
</p>

<p>
<q>Good-by, Beechnut,</q> said Rodolphus.
</p>

<p>
<q>I am much obliged to you for my ride,</q> said
Annie.
</p>

<p>
<q>Stop a minute, Antonio,</q> said Ellen, <q>I have
got something for you.</q>
</p>

<p>
So saying, Ellen went into the house and
brought out a small flat parcel, neatly put up
and addressed on the outside, <hi rend='smallcaps'>Antonio</hi>.
</p>

<p>
She took it out to the wagon, and handed it
up to Antonio, saying that there were the last
drawings that he had lent her. In fact, Ellen
was one of Beechnut's pupils in drawing. He
was accustomed to lend her models, which, when
she had copied them, she sent back to him.
Ellen was one of Antonio's favorite pupils; she
was so faithful, and patient, and persevering.
Besides, she was a very beautiful girl.
</p>

<p>
<q>I must not stop to see your copies now,</q>
said Antonio, <q>but I shall come again pretty
soon. Good-by.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Good-by,</q> said Ellen: and then she went
back to the door where Rodolphus and Annie
were standing.
</p>

<p>
Rodolphus lifted up the corner
of the cloth, which covered the
basket, and let Ellen see the rabbits.
Ellen was very much pleased
to find that one of them was hers.
She said that she would put a collar
on its neck, as a mark that it was
hers, and she asked Rodolphus and
Annie to go in with her into the
house, where she said she would
get the collar.
</p>

<p>
So they all went in. The room
was a very pleasant room, indeed.
It was large and it was in perfect
order. There was a very spacious
fire-place in it, but scarcely any fire.
As it was summer, no fire was necessary.
At one side of the room,
near a window, there was a table,
which Ellen said was <emph>her</emph> table.
There were two drawers in this
table. These drawers contained
books, and papers, and various articles of apparatus
for writing and drawing. In one corner of
one of the drawers there was a little paint box.
</p>

<p>
There was a small bedroom adjoining the
room where the children were. They all pretty
soon heard a voice calling from this room, in a
pleasant tone, <q>Ellen, bring the children in here.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes; come Rolfy,</q> said Ellen&mdash;<q>and Annie&mdash;come
and see aunt.</q> So all the children went
into their aunt's room.
</p>

<p>
They found her half-sitting and half-lying upon
her sofa, by a pleasant window, which looked out
upon a green yard and upon an orchard which
was beyond the yard. She was sewing. She
looked pale, but she seemed contented and happy&mdash;and
she said that she was very glad to see Rodolphus
and Annie. She talked with them some
time, and then asked Ellen to get them some
luncheon. Ellen accordingly went into the other
room and set the table for luncheon, by <emph>her</emph> window
as she called it. This window was a very
pleasant one, near her table. The luncheon consisted
<pb n='443'/><anchor id='Pg443'/>
of a pie, some cake, warm from the oven,
and some baked apples, and cream. Ellen said
that she made the cake, and the pie, and baked
the apples herself.
</p>

<p>
The children ate their luncheon together very
happily, and then spent some time in walking
about the yards, the barns, and the garden, to see
what was to be seen. Rodolphus walked about
quietly and behaved well. In fact, he was always
a good boy at his aunt's, and obeyed all her directions&mdash;she
would not allow him to do otherwise.
</p>

<p>
At length Rodolphus and Annie set out on
their return home. It was a long walk, but in
due time they reached home in safety. Rodolphus
determined not to give the money back to
his father, and so he hid it in a crevice, which
he found in a part of the fence behind his rabbit
house. He put the rabbits in their house, and
put a board up before the door to keep them in.
</p>

<p>
That night when Mrs. Linn took off Annie's
stockings by the kitchen fire, when she was going
to put her to bed, she found them very damp.
</p>

<p>
<q>Why, Annie,</q> she said, <q>what makes your
stockings so damp? You must have got into
the water somewhere to-day.</q>
</p>

<p>
Annie did not answer. Rodolphus had enjoined
it upon her not to tell their mother of
their adventure on the raft, and so she did not
know what to say.
</p>

<p>
<q>Damp?</q> said Rodolphus. <q>Are they damp?
Let me feel.</q> So he began to feel of Annie's
stockings.
</p>

<p>
<q>No,</q> said he, <q>they are not damp. <emph>I</emph> can't
feel that they are damp.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>They certainly are,</q> said his mother. <q>They
are very damp indeed.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Then,</q> said Rodolphus, <q>we must have
spilled some water into them when we were getting
a drink, Annie, at the well.</q> Annie said
nothing, and Mrs. Linn hung the stockings up
to dry.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>III. Sickness.</head>

<p>
Ellen's aunt was the sister of Mr. Linn, Ellen's
father; and her name was Anne. Ellen
used to call her Aunt Anne. Her husband's
name was Randon, so that sometimes Ellen
called her Aunt Randon.
</p>

<p>
Though Mr. Randon's house appeared rather
small, as seen from the road by any one riding
by, it was pretty spacious and very comfortable
within. Mr. Randon owned several farms in different
places, and he was away from home a
great deal attending to his other farms and to
the flocks of sheep and herds of cattle which he
had upon them. During these absences Mrs.
Randon of course remained at home with Ellen.
There was a girl named Martha who lived at the
house to do the work of the family, and also a
young man named Hugh. Hugh was employed
in the mornings and evenings in taking care of
the barns and the cattle, and in the day-time,
especially in the winter, he hauled wood&mdash;sometimes
to the house for the family to burn, and
sometimes to the village for sale.
</p>

<p>
The family lived thus very happily together,
whether Mr. Randon was at home or away.
Mrs. Randon could not walk about the house at
all, but was, on the other hand, confined all day
to her bed or her sofa; but she knew every thing
that was done; and gave directions about every
thing. Ellen was employed as messenger to
carry her aunt's directions out, and to bring back
intelligence and answers. Mrs. Randon knew
exactly what was in every room, and where it
was in the room. She knew what was in every
drawer, and what was on every shelf in every
closet, and what and how much was in every bin
in the cellar. So that if she wanted any thing
she could direct Ellen where to go to get it with
a certainty that it would be exactly there. The
house was very full of furniture, stores, and supplies,
and all was so well arranged and in such
an orderly and complete condition, that in going
over it every room that the visitor entered seemed
pleasanter than the one seen before.
</p>

<p>
On one occasion, Rodolphus himself had proof
of this admirable order. He had cut his finger,
in the shed, and when he came in, Mrs. Randon,
after binding it up very nicely, turned to Ellen,
and said,
</p>

<p>
<q>Now, Ellen, we must have a cot. Go up
into the garret, and open the third trunk, counting
from the west window. In the right-hand
front corner of this trunk you will find a small
box. In the box you will find three cots. Bring
the smallest one to me.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ellen went and found every thing as Mrs.
Randon had described it.
</p>

<p>
There was a room in the front part of the
house called the Front Room, which was usually
kept shut up. It was furnished as a parlor very
prettily. It had very full curtains to the windows,
a soft carpet on the floor, and a rug before
the fire-place. There was a bookcase in this
room, with a desk below. Mr. Randon kept his
valuable papers in this desk, and the book-case
above was filled with interesting books. There
were several very pretty pictures on the walls of
this room, and some curious ornaments on the
mantle shelf. The blinds of the windows in this
apartment were generally closed and the curtains
drawn, and Ellen seldom went into it, except to
get a new book to read to her aunt, out of the
secretary.
</p>

<p>
The room which the family generally used,
was a back room. It was quite large, and it had
a very spacious fire-place in it. Being larger
than any other room in the house it was generally
called the Great Room. The windows of
this room looked out upon a pretty green yard,
with a garden and an orchard beyond. There
was a door too at one end of the room opening
to a porch. In this porch was an outer door,
which led to a large yard at the end of the house.
This was the door that Antonio had driven up
to, when he brought Rodolphus and Annie to
see Ellen. On the other side of the kitchen from
the porch-door, was a door leading to Mrs. Randon's
bed-room. The situation of these rooms,
and of the other apartments of the house as well
as of the principal articles of furniture hereafter
<pb n='444'/><anchor id='Pg444'/>
to be described, may be perfectly understood by
the means of the following plan.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p444a.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <head>Plan of Mrs. Randon's House. B: Bed in Mrs Randon's bed-room.
W: The closed windows. B. E.: Back entry. pl: Back Platform.
P: Porch. C: Mrs. Randon's couch or sofa. ff: Fire-places.
H: Hugh's seat. S: Settle. L: Lutie's bed.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Mrs. Randon was accustomed to remain in her
bedroom almost all the time in the summer, but
in the winter she had her sofa or couch brought
out and placed by the side of the fire-place in the
great room, as represented in the plan. Here,
in the long stormy evenings of winter, the family
would live together very happily. Mrs. Randon
would lie reclining upon her sofa, knitting, and
talking to Martha and Ellen while they were getting
supper ready. Ellen would set the table,
while Martha would bake the cakes and bring up
the milk out of the cellar, and make the tea;
and then when all was ready, they would move
the table up close to Mrs. Randon's sofa, and
after lifting her up and supporting her with pillows
at her back, they would themselves sit down
on the other side of the table, and all eat their
supper together in a very happy manner.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p444b.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <head>The Great Room.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Then, after supper, when the table had been
put away, and a fresh fire had been made on the
great stone hearth, Ellen would sit
in a little rocking-chair by her aunt's
side, and read aloud some interesting
story, while Martha sat knitting on
the settle, at the other side of the
fire, and Hugh, on a bench in the
corner, occupied himself with making
clothes-pins, or shaping teeth for
rakes, or fitting handles into tools,
or some other work of that kind.
Hugh found that unless he had such
work to do, he always fell asleep
while Ellen was reading.
</p>

<p>
Ellen found that her aunt, instead
of growing better, rather grew worse.
She was very pale, though very delicate
and beautiful. Her fingers were
very long, and white, and tapering.
Ellen thought that they grew longer
and more tapering every day. At
last, one winter evening, just after
tea, and before Hugh and Martha had
come in to sit down, Ellen went up
to the sofa, and kneeling down upon
a little bear-skin rug which was
there, and which had been put there
to look warm and comfortable, although
the poor invalid could never
put her feet upon it, she bent down over her
aunt and said,
</p>

<p>
<q>It seems to me Aunt Anne, that you don't
get better very fast.</q>
</p>

<p>
The patient, putting her arm over Ellen's
neck, and drawing Ellen down closely to her,
kissed her, but did not answer.
</p>

<p>
<q>Do you think you shall ever get well, aunty?</q>
said Ellen.
</p>

<p>
<q>No,</q> said her aunt, <q>I do not think that I
shall. I think that before a great while I shall
die.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Why, aunty!</q> said Ellen. She was much
shocked to hear such a declaration. <q>I <emph>hope</emph>
you will not die,</q> she continued presently, speaking
in a very low and solemn manner. <q>What
shall I do if you should die!&mdash;What makes you
think that you will die?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>There are two reasons why I
think that I shall die,</q> said her
aunt. <q>One is, that I feel that I am
growing weaker and weaker all the
time. I have grown a great deal
weaker within a few days.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Have you?</q> said Ellen, in a tone
of great anxiety and concern.
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes,</q> said her aunt. <q>The
other reason that makes me think
that I am going to die is greater
still; and that is I begin to feel so
<emph>willing</emph> to die.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I thought that you were always
willing to die,</q> said Ellen. <q>I
thought we ought to be all willing to
die, always.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No,</q> said her aunt, <q>or yes, in
<pb n='445'/><anchor id='Pg445'/>
one sense we ought. We ought always to be
willing to submit to whatever God shall think
best for us. But as to life and death, we ought
undoubtedly, when we are strong and well, to
desire to live.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>God means,</q> she continued, <q>that we should
desire to live, and that we should do all that we
can to prolong life. He has given us an instinct
impelling us to that feeling. But when sickness
comes and death is nigh, then the instinct changes.
We do not <emph>wish</emph> to live then&mdash;that is, if we feel
that we are prepared to die. It is a very kind
and merciful arrangement to have the instinct
change, so that when we are well, we can be
happy in the thought of living, and when we are
sick and about to die, we can be happy in the
thought of dying. Our instincts often change
thus, when the circumstances change.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Do they?</q> said Ellen, thoughtfully.
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes,</q> said her aunt. <q rend='pre'>For instance, when
you were an infant, your mother's instinctive
love for you led her to wish to have you always
near her, with your cheek upon her cheek, and
your little hand in her bosom. Mothers all have
such an instinct as that, while their children are
very young. It is given to them so that they
may love to have their children very near them
while they are so young and tender that they
would not be safe if they were away.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But <emph>now</emph>,</q> she continued, <q>you have grown
older, and the instinct has changed. Your mother
loves you just as much as she did when you
were an infant, but she loves you in a different
way. She is willing to have you absent from
her, if you are only well provided for and happy.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And is it so with death?</q> asked Ellen.
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes,</q> replied her aunt; <q>when we are well,
we love life, and we ought to love it. It then
seems terrible to die. God means that it should
seem terrible to us then. But when sickness
comes and we are about to die, then he changes
the feeling. Death seems terrible no more.
We become perfectly willing to die.</q>
</p>

<p>
Here Mrs. Randon paused, and Ellen remained
still, thinking of what she had heard, but
without speaking. After a few minutes her aunt
continued.
</p>

<p>
<q>I have had a great change in my feelings
within a short time, about dying,</q> said she, <q>I
have always, heretofore, desired to live and to
get well; and it has seemed to me a terrible
thing to die;&mdash;to leave my pleasant home, and
my husband, and my dear Ellen, and to see them
no more. But somehow or other, lately, all this
is changed. I feel now perfectly willing to die.
It does not seem terrible at all. I have been a
great sinner all my days, but I feel sure that my
sins are forgiven for Christ's sake, and that if I
die I shall be happy where I go, and that I shall
see my husband and you too there some day.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ellen laid her head down by the side of her
aunt's, with her face to the pillow and her cheek
against her aunt's cheek, but said nothing.
</p>

<p>
<q>When I am gone,</q> continued her aunt, <q>you
will go home and live with your mother again.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Shall I?</q> said Ellen, faintly.
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes,</q> replied her aunt, <q>it will be better
that you should. You can do a great deal of
good there. You can gradually get the house
in order, taking one thing at a time, and so not
only help your mother, but make it more pleasant
and comfortable for your father. You can
also teach Annie, and be a great help to her as
she grows up; and you can also perhaps do a
great deal of good to Rodolphus.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I don't know what I shall do with Rodolphus,</q>
said Ellen. <q>He troubles my mother very
much indeed.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I know he does,</q> said her aunt, <q>but then
you will soon get a great influence over him,
and it is possible that you will succeed in making
him a good boy.</q>
</p>

<p>
As Mrs. Randon said this, Ellen heard the
sound of a door opening in the back entry, and a
stamping of feet upon the floor, as if some one
were coming in out of the snow.
</p>

<p>
<q>There comes Hugh,</q> said Ellen, <q>and I
think there is going to be a storm.</q>
</p>

<p>
Signs of a gathering storm had in fact been
appearing all that day. For several days before,
the weather had been very clear and cold, but
that morning the cold had diminished, and a thin
haze had gradually extended itself over the sky.
At sunset the sky looked thick and murky toward
the southeast, and it became dark much
sooner than usual. A moment after Ellen had
spoken, Hugh came in. He said that it was
snowing, and that two or three inches of snow
had already fallen; and that if it snowed much
during the night he should not be able to go into
the woods the next morning.
</p>

<p>
When Ellen rose the next morning and looked
at the windows, she saw that the snow was piled
up against the panes of glass on the outside, and
on going to the window to look out, she found that
it was snowing still, and that all the old snow
and all the roads and tracks upon it, were entirely
covered. Ellen went out into the great room,
and there she found a blazing fire in the fireplace,
and Martha before it getting breakfast
ready. Pretty soon Hugh came in.
</p>

<p>
<q>What a great snow-storm,</q> said Ellen.
</p>

<p>
<q>No,</q> said Hugh, <q>it is not a very great snow-storm.
It does not snow very fast.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Can you go into the woods to-day?</q> said Ellen.
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes,</q> said Hugh, <q>I am going into the
woods for a load of wood to haul to the village.
The snow is not very deep yet.</q>
</p>

<p>
Hugh went to the woods, got his load, hauled
it to the village, and returned to dinner. After
dinner he went again. Ellen was almost afraid
to have him go away in the afternoon, for her
aunt appeared to be more and more unwell. She
lay upon her sofa by the side of the fire, silent
and still, apparently without pain, but very faint
and feeble. She spoke very seldom, and then
only in a whisper. At one time about the middle
of the afternoon, Ellen went and stood a moment
at the window to see the snow driving by&mdash;blown
by the wind along the crests of the
drifts, and over the walls, down the road. When
she turned round, she saw that her aunt was
<pb n='446'/><anchor id='Pg446'/>
beckoning to her with her white and slender finger.
Ellen went immediately to her.
</p>

<p>
<q>Is Hugh going to the village this afternoon?</q>
she asked.
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes, aunt,</q> said Ellen, <q>I believe he is.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I wish you would ask him to call at my
brother George's, and tell him that I am very
sick, and ask him if he can not come up and see
me this evening.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes, aunt,</q> said Ellen, <q>I will.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ellen accordingly watched for Hugh when he
came down the mountain-road with the load of
wood, on the way to the village. She gave him
the message, standing at the stoop-door. The
wind howled mournfully over the trees of the
forest, and the air was thick with falling and
driving snow. Hugh said that he had almost
concluded not to go to the village. The snow
had become so deep, and the storm was increasing
so fast, that he doubted very much whether
he could get back if he should go. On receiving
Ellen's message, however, he decided at once to
go on. He could get <emph>to</emph> the village well enough,
he said, for it was a descending road all the way;
but there would be more uncertainty about the
return.
</p>

<p>
So he started his four oxen again, and they
went wallowing on, followed by the great loaded
sled, with the runners buried in the drift.
Hugh's cap and shaggy coat, and the handkerchief
which he had tied about the collar of his
coat, after turning it up to cover his ears, were
all whitened with the snow, and from among all
these various mufflings his face, reddened with
the cold, peeped out, though almost wholly concealed
from view.
</p>

<p>
As soon as Hugh was gone, Ellen, who was
by this time almost blinded by the snow which
the wind blew furiously into her face and eyes,
came into the house and shut the door.
</p>

<p>
Ellen watched very diligently all the afternoon
for the coming of her father. She hoped that he
would bring her mother with him. She went to
the window again and again, and looked anxiously
down the road, but nothing was to be seen but
the thick and murky atmosphere, the increasing
drifts, and the scudding wreaths of snow. The
fences and the walls gradually disappeared from
view; the great wood pile in the yard was soon
completely covered and concealed; and a deep
drift, of the form of a wave just curling over to
break upon the shore, slowly rose directly across
the entrance to the yard, until it was higher than
the posts on each side of the gateway, so that
Ellen began to fear that if her father and mother
should come, they would not be able to get into
the yard.
</p>

<p>
At length it gradually grew dark, and then,
though Ellen went to the window as often as before,
and attempted to shade her eyes from the
reflection of the fire, by holding up her hands
to the side of her face, she could watch these
changes no longer. Nothing was to be seen,
but the trickling of the flakes down the panes of
glass on the outside, and a small expanse of
white immediately below the window.
</p>

<p>
In the mean time, within the room where Ellen's
aunt was reposing, all seemed, at least in
appearance, very bright and cheerful. A great
log was lying across the andirons, behind and
beneath which there was a blazing and glowing
fire. There was a tin baker before this fire, with
a pan of large apples in it, which Martha was
baking, to furnish the table with, for the expected
company. Martha herself was busy at a side-table
too, making cakes for supper. The tea-kettle
was in a corner, with a column of steam
rising gently from the spout, and Ellen's little
gray kitten, Lutie, was in the other corner
asleep. Ellen herself was busy, here and there,
about the room. She went often to the window,
even after it was too dark to see, and she watched
her aunt continually with a countenance expressive
of much affection and concern. Her aunt lay
perfectly quiet and still, as if she were asleep,
only she would now and then open her eyes and
smile upon Ellen, if she saw Ellen looking at
her, and then close them again.
</p>

<p>
The couch that she was lying upon had little
wheels at the four corners of it toward the floor,
so that it could be moved to and fro. Ellen had
been accustomed, when the time arrived for her
aunt to go to bed, to ask Martha to help her move
the couch into the bedroom, by the side of the
bed, and then assist her in moving the patient
from one to the other. Ellen, accordingly, about
an hour after it became dark, went to her aunt's
couch, and asked her in a gentle tone if she
would not like to go to bed. But her aunt said
no. She would not be moved, she said, but
would remain as she was until her brother should
come. She said, too, that Martha and Ellen
might eat their supper when it was ready, and
leave her where she was.
</p>

<p>
Martha and Ellen finished their supper about
seven o'clock. Martha then took her place upon
the settle with her knitting-work as usual, and
Ellen went and sat down upon the little bear-skin
rug, and leaned her head toward her aunt.
Her aunt put out her hand toward Ellen's cheek
and pressed her head gently down upon the pillow,
by the side of her own, and then very slowly
and feebly moved her fingers, once or twice,
down the hair on Ellen's temple, as if she were
pleased to have her little niece lying near her.
Ellen shut her eyes, and for a few minutes enjoyed
very much the thought that she was such
an object of affection to one whom she loved so
much; but after a few minutes, she began to lose
her consciousness, and soon fell fast asleep.
</p>

<p>
She slept more than an hour. It was in fact
nearly half-past eight when she awoke. She
raised her head and looked up. She found that
Martha had fallen asleep too. Her knitting-work
had dropped from her hand. Ellen did not
wish to disturb her, so she rose softly, went to
the fire, and put up a brand which had fallen
down, and then crossed the room to the window,
parted the curtains, and putting her face close to
the glass, attempted to look out. Nothing was
to be seen. She listened. Nothing was to be
heard but the dreadful roaring of the wind, and
<pb n='447'/><anchor id='Pg447'/>
the clicking of the snow-flakes against the windows.
</p>

<p>
Ellen came back to the couch again, and looked
at her aunt as she lay with her cheek upon her
pillow, apparently asleep. At first Ellen thought
that she was really asleep, but when she came
near, she found that her eyes were not entirely
closed. She kneeled down by the side of the
couch and said gently, <q>Aunt Anne, Aunt Anne,
how do you feel now?</q>
</p>

<p>
Ellen saw that her aunt moved a little, and
she heard a faint whispering sound, but there
was no audible answer.
</p>

<p>
Ellen was now frightened. She feared that
her aunt might be dying. She went to Martha
and woke her. Martha started up much alarmed.
Ellen told her that she was afraid that her
aunt was dying. Martha went to the couch.
She thought so too.
</p>

<p>
<q>I must go,</q> said she, <q>to some of the neighbors
and get them to come.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But you can not get to any of the neighbors,</q>
said Ellen.
</p>

<p>
<q>Perhaps I can,</q> said Martha, <q>and at any
rate I must try.</q>
</p>

<p>
So Martha began to prepare herself, as well
as she could, to go out into the storm, Ellen
standing by, full of apprehension and anxiety,
and helping her so far as she was able to do so.
There was a neighbor who lived about a quarter
of a mile from the house, by a road which lay
through the woods, and which was, therefore,
ordinarily not very much obstructed with the
snow. It was to this house that Martha was
going to attempt to make her way. When she
was ready, she went forth, leaving Ellen with
her aunt alone.
</p>

<p>
(To Be Continued.)
</p>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Recollections Of St. Petersburg.</head>

<p>
<q>To-morr punkt at 'leven wir schiff for St.
Petersburg,</q> was the polyglot announcement
by which all of us, Swedes, Germans, English,
and one solitary American, were given to
understand at what hour on the ensuing day we
were to commence our voyage from Stockholm for
the Russian capital. With praiseworthy punctuality
the steam was up at the appointed hour
of eleven, and as our steamer shot out into the
Baltic we took our farewell view of Stockholm,
the <q>City of Piles.</q> As we steamed northward
we dashed through archipelago after archipelago
of islands, some with bold and rocky shores, and
others sloping greenly down to the tranquil sea.
Having passed the Aland Islands, one of which,
not thirty miles from the coast of Sweden, has
been seized and strongly fortified by her powerful
and unscrupulous neighbor, we turned into a
narrow inlet, and touched Russian soil at Abo,
the ancient capital of Finland.
</p>

<p>
Here we made our first acquaintance with
those fascinating gentry, whom his Imperial Majesty
deputes to watch that nothing treasonable
or contraband finds entrance into his dominions.
Our intercourse here was, however, brief, our
passports merely being demanded, and permission
granted us to go on shore while the steamer
was detained. At Cronstadt and St. Petersburg
we formed a more intimate if not more agreeable
acquaintance with these functionaries. Setting
out again we coasted eastward up the Gulf of
Finland, passing the grim fortress of Sveaborg,
with its eight hundred guns, and garrison of fifteen
thousand men, and shot up the beautiful
bay to Helsingfors, one of the great naval stations
of Russia. Touching at Revel, on the opposite
shore of the Gulf of Finland, we ran due
east up the Gulf, encountering the great Russian
summer fleet, which was performing its annual
manuvres, and on the morning after leaving
Helsingfors came in sight of the shipping and
fortifications of Cronstadt. As we crept slowly
up the narrow and winding channel, by which
alone the harbor can be reached, and passed successively
the grim lines of batteries which command
every portion of it, we were forced to confess
that it formed a fitting outpost to a great
military power.
</p>

<p>
Cronstadt is not only the chief naval dpt of
Russia, but is properly the port of St. Petersburg,
as the capital is inaccessible to vessels drawing
more than eight or nine feet of water. Hence
Cronstadt is included in the St. Petersburg customs-district,
and vessels clear indifferently for
either, and are subject to only a single customs-house
examination. It forms the key to the capital,
which would be entirely at the mercy of any
fleet which should once pass its batteries. It
has therefore been fortified so strongly as to be
apparently impregnable to all the navies of the
world. We came to anchor under the guns of
the fortress; and were soon put under the charge
of our amiable friends of the custom-house, who
took complete possession of the deck, while the
passengers and officers of the vessel were directed
to repair to the cabin to give an account of
themselves, their occupations, pursuits, and designs
to these rude and filthy representatives of
the Czar. It was well for us that we had been
in a measure hardened to these annoyances by
our previous Continental experiences. Police
and custom-house functionaries are nowhere famous
for civility, but the rudest and most unendurable
specimens of that class whom it has ever
been my fortune to encounter are the lower orders
of the Russian officials. We could, however,
congratulate ourselves that the infliction
was light in comparison to what it would have
been had we proceeded by land from Abo.
There trunks, pockets, and pocket-books are liable
to repeated searches at different stations
along the route. We were told of travelers who
had their boxes of tooth-powder carefully emptied,
and their soap-balls cut in two, in quest of something
treasonable or contraband.
</p>

<p>
But there is an end to all things human, even
to Russian police-examinations. Our passports
were luckily all in order, and as our steamer was
cleared for St. Petersburg we escaped the vexations
attendant upon an inspection of luggage
and a change of vessel. Every thing was put
under seal, even to an ancient umbrella which
<pb n='448'/><anchor id='Pg448'/>
had borne the brunt of many a shower in half the
countries of Europe, to say nothing of storms
it had weathered previous to its transatlantic
voyage.
</p>

<p>
After our seven hours' detention, we found
ourselves at last steaming up the transparent
Neva, and straining our eyes to get a first view
of the City of Peter. After something more than
an hour's paddling against the rapid current of
the river, the gilt dome of the Cathedral first
caught the eye, followed by the sight of dome
after dome, tower upon tower, spire after spire,
gilt and spangled with azure stars, long before
the flat roofs and walls of the city were visible.
</p>

<p>
No sooner had our steamer touched the granite
<foreign rend='italic'>quai</foreign> than it was taken possession of by a horde
of custom-house and police officers, a shade or
two less filthy and disgusting than their Cronstadt
brethren; for it is a noticeable fact, the
higher you proceed in official grade, the more
endurable do the Russian officials become, till
you reach the heads of the departments, who are
as civil and well-behaved a body of functionaries
as ever clasped fingers upon a bribe. A few
copecks or rubles, as the case may require, insinuated
into the expectant palms of the searching
officials have a wonderful tendency to abate
the rigor of the examinations, which being completed,
and a silver ruble paid to the officer in
attendance, the traveler is at liberty to go on
shore in search of a hotel or lodgings.
</p>

<p>
The instructed traveler will resist the seductions
of the Russian hotels, with their magnificent
fronts, and Russian, German, and French
signboards; for once past the portals he will find
that the noble staircases and broad passages are
filthy beyond all western imagination; and the
damask curtains and velvet sofas are perfect
parks for all those <q>small deer</q> who make day
and night hideous. If he be wise, he will make
his way to some boarding-house upon the <hi rend='italic'>Quai
Anglais</hi>, conducted by an emigrant from some
country where the primitive faith in the virtues
of dusters and soap and water is cherished.
</p>

<p>
No sooner is the stranger established than he
must take an interpreter, and make the best of
his way to the police office, to get a permit of
residence. This he obtains after an interrogation
from a very civil functionary, to whom must
be paid a proportionate fee. But this permit is
good only for the capital and its immediate vicinity.
If the Russians are slow to welcome the
coming, they are none the more ready to speed
the parting guest. Mr. Smith and his friend
Brown must not leave the capital till they have
published an advertisement announcing their intention
in three successive numbers of the Gazette,
an operation which consumes a space of
from a week to ten days.
</p>

<p>
These preliminaries duly attended to, we were
at liberty to commence our examination of St.
Petersburg. The traveler who first sees the city
under a summer sun is always struck with amazement.
Its public places are so vast, its monuments
so numerous and imposing, its quays so
magnificent, and its edifices, public and private,
so enormous, and constructed apparently of materials
so massive and enduring, that he is ready
to pronounce it the most magnificent city upon
earth.
</p>

<p>
A century and a half ago the low marshy
shores of the Neva, and the islands formed by
the branches into which it separates just before
it empties itself into the Gulf of Finland were
inhabited only by a few scattered Finnish fishermen.
But commanding the entrance to Lake
Ladoga, it was a military position of some importance,
and the Swedes had long maintained
there a fortress, the possession of which had been
often unavailingly contested by the Russians, up
to 1703, when Peter the Great made himself
master of it. He determined to found upon this
desolate spot the future capital of his vast empire,
and at once commenced the task, without waiting
for peace to confirm the possession of the
site. He assembled a vast number of the peasantry
from every quarter of his empire, and
pushed forward the work with the energy of an
iron will armed with absolute power. The surrounding
country, ravaged by long years of war,
could furnish no supplies for these enormous
masses, and the convoys which brought them
across Lake Ladoga were frequently detained by
contrary winds. Ill fed and worse lodged, laboring
in the cold and wet, multitudes yielded to
the hardships, and the foundations of the new
metropolis were laid at the cost of a hundred
thousand lives, sacrificed in less than six months.
</p>

<p>
With Peter to will was to perform; he willed
that a capital city should be built and inhabited,
and built and inhabited it was. In April, 1714,
a ukase was issued directing that all buildings
should be erected in a particular manner; another,
three months later, ordered a large number
of nobles and merchants to erect dwellings in the
new city. In a few months more another ukase
prohibited the erection of any stone mansion in
any other portion of the empire, while the enterprise
of the capital was in progress; and that
the lack of building materials should be no obstacle,
every vessel, whether large or small, and
every peasant's car which came to the city, was
ordered to bring a certain specified number of
building stones. The work undertaken with
such rigid determination, and carried on with
such remorseless vigor by Peter, was continued
in the same unflinching spirit by his successors;
and the result was the present St. Petersburg,
with its aspect more imposing than that of any
other city on the globe, but bearing in its bosom
the elements of its own destruction, the moment
it is freed from the control of the iron will, which
created and now maintains it:&mdash;a fitting type and
representative of the Russian Empire.
</p>

<p>
The whole enterprise of founding and maintaining
St. Petersburg was and is a struggle
against nature. The soil is a marsh so deep and
spongy that a solid foundation can be attained
only by constructing a subterranean scaffolding
of piles. Were it not for these the city would
sink into the marsh like a stage ghost through
the trap-door. Every building of any magnitude
<pb n='449'/><anchor id='Pg449'/>
rests on piles; the granite quays which line the
Neva rest on piles. The very foot-pavements
can not be laid upon the ground, but must be
supported by piles. A great commercial city is
maintained, the harbor of which is as inaccessible
to ships, for six months in the year, as the
centre of the desert of Sahara. In the neighboring
country no part produces any thing for human
sustenance save the Neva, which furnishes
ice and fish. The severity of the climate is most
destructive to the erections of human hands; and
St. Petersburg, notwithstanding its gay summer
appearance, when it emerges from the winter
frosts, resembles a superannuated belle at the
close of the fashionable season; and can only be
put in proper visiting order by the assiduous
services of hosts of painters and plasterers.
Leave the capital for a half century to the unrepaired
ravages of its wintry climate, and it would
need a Layard to unearth its monuments.
</p>

<p>
But sure as are the wasting inroads of time
and the climate, St Petersburg is in daily peril
of an overthrow whose accomplishment would
require but a few hours. The Gulf of Finland
forms a vast funnel pointing eastward, at the
extremity of which stands the city. No portion
of the city is fifteen feet above the ordinary level
of the water. A strong westerly wind, blowing
directly into the mouth of the funnel, piles the
water up so as to lay the lower part of the city
under water. Water is as much dreaded here,
and as many precautions are taken against it, as
in the case of fire in other cities. In other cities
alarm-signals announce a conflagration; here
they give notice of an inundation. The firing of
an alarm-gun from the Admiralty, at intervals of
an hour, denotes that the lower extremes of the
islands are under water, when flags are hung out
from the steeples to give warning of danger.
When the water reaches the streets, alarm-guns
are fired every quarter of an hour. As the water
rises the alarms grow more and more frequent,
until minute-guns summon boats to the assistance
of the drowning population.
</p>

<pb n='450'/><anchor id='Pg450'/>

<p>
So much for the lower jaw of the monster that
lies in wait for the Russian capital; now for the
upper:&mdash;Lake Ladoga, which discharges its waters
through the Neva, is frozen over to an enormous
thickness during the long winter. The rapid
northern spring raises its waters and loosens the
ice simultaneously; when the waters of the Gulf
are at their usual level, the accumulated ice and
water find an easy outlet down the broad and
rapid Neva. But let a strong west wind heap
up the waters of the Gulf just as the breaking
up of Lake Ladoga takes place, and the waters
from above and from below would suffice to inundate
the whole city, while all its palaces, monuments,
and temples would be crushed between
the masses of ice, like <q>Captain Ahab's</q> boat
in the ivory jaws of <q>Moby Dick.</q> Nothing is
more probable than such a coincidence. It often
blows from the west for days together in the
spring; and it is almost a matter of certainty
that the ice will break up between the middle
and the end of April. Let but a westerly storm
arise on the fatal day of that brief fortnight, and
farewell to the City of the Czars. Any steamer
that bridges the Atlantic may be freighted with
the tidings that St. Petersburg has sunk deeper
than plummet can sound in the Finnish marshes
from which it has so magically risen.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p449.png' rend='width: 60%'>
    <head>The Inundation of 1824.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Nor is this merely a matter of theory and speculation.
Terrible inundations, involving enormous
destruction of life and property have occurred.
The most destructive of these took place
on the 17th of November, 1824. A strong west
wind heaped the waters of the Gulf up into the
narrow funnel of the Neva, and poured them,
slowly at first, along the streets. As night began
to close in the rise of the waters became
more and more rapid. Cataracts poured into
doors, windows, and cellars. The sewers spouted
up columns, like whales in the death-agony.
The streets were filled with abandoned equipages,
and deserted horses struggling in the rising waters.
The trees in the public squares were
crowded with those who had climbed them for
refuge. During the night the wind abated, and
the waters receded. But the pecuniary damage
of that one night is estimated at twenty millions
of dollars, and the loss of lives at eight thousand.
All through the city a painted line traced upon
the walls designates the height to which the waters
reached. Were ever house-painters before
engaged upon a task so ghastly? But suppose
that, instead of November, April had been written
as the date of this inundation, when the waters
from the Lake above had met those from
the Gulf below; St. Petersburg would have been
numbered among the things that were&mdash;<foreign rend='italic'>Ilium
fuit</foreign>.
</p>

<p>
Nothing of the kind can be more imposing than
the view of St. Petersburg from the tower of the
Admiralty upon some bright June day, such as
that on which I first beheld it from that post.
Under foot, as it seemed, from the galleries, lay
the Admiralty-yards, where great ships were in
process of erection, destined for no nobler service
than to perform their three months' summer
cruise in the Baltic, and to be frozen immovably
in the harbors for six months out of twelve. The
will of the Czar can effect much, but it can not
convert Russia into a naval power until he can
secure a seacoast, and harbors which can not be
shut up to him by a single hostile fortification.
Russia can not be a maritime power till she is
mistress of the entrance to the Baltic and the
Black Sea.
</p>

<p>
To the right and the left of the Admiralty
stretch the great squares upon which stand the
principal public edifices and monuments of the
capital; the Winter Palace, with its six thousand
constant occupants; the <hi rend='italic'>Hotel de l'Etat Major</hi>,
whence go forth orders to a million of soldiers,
the Senate House, and the Palace of the Holy
Synod, the centres of temporal and spiritual law
for the hundred nations blended into the Russian
Empire; the Church of St. Isaac, with its four
porticoes, the lofty columns of which, sixty feet in
height, are each of a single block of granite, and
the walls of polished marble; its cupola covered
with copper overlaid with gold, gleaming like another
sun, surmounted by a golden cross, and
forming the most conspicuous object to the approaching
visitor, whether he comes up the Gulf,
or across the dreary Finnish marshes; yet, high
as it rises in the air, it sinks scarcely a less distance
below the ground, so deep was it necessary
to drive into the marsh the forest of piles upon
which it rests, before a firm foundation could be
secured. Here is the Statue of Peter&mdash;the finest
equestrian statue in the world&mdash;reining his steed
upon the brink of the precipice up which he has
urged it, his hand stretched out in benediction
toward the Neva, the pride of his new-founded
city. Here is the triumphal column to Alexander,
<q>the Restorer of Peace,</q> the whole elevation of
which is 150 feet, measuring to the head of the
angel who&mdash;the cross victorious over the crescent&mdash;bears
the symbol of the Christian faith above
the capital cast from cannon captured from the
Turks. The shaft is a single block eighty-four
feet in height&mdash;the largest single stone erected
in modern times; and it would have been still
loftier had it not been for the blind unreasoning
obedience to orders, so characteristic of the Russian.
When the column had been determined
upon, orders were dispatched to the quarries to
detach, if possible, a single block for the shaft of
the length of eighty-four feet, though with scarcely
a hope that the attempt would succeed. One
day a dispatch was received by the Czar from the
superintendent, with the tidings that a block had
been detached, free from flaw, one hundred feet
long; but that he was about to proceed to reduce
it to the required length. The sovereign mounted
in hot haste to save the block from mutilation,
and to preserve a column so much exceeding his
hopes. But he was too late; and arrived just in
time to see the sixteen feet severed from the block,
which would otherwise have been the noblest
shaft in the world.
</p>

<p>
The length of these public places, open and in
full view, right and left, from the Admiralty
tower, is a full mile.
</p>

<pb n='451'/><anchor id='Pg451'/>

<p>
Stretching southward from the tower lies the
<q>Great Side</q> of St. Petersburg, cut into three
concentric semicircular divisions, of which the
Admiralty is the centre, by three canals, and intersected
by the three main avenues or <foreign rend='italic'>Prospekts</foreign>
(Perspectives). These three Perspectives diverge
like the spokes of a wheel from the Admiralty and
run straight through the city, through the sumptuous
quarters of the aristocracy, the domains of
commerce, and the suburbs of the poor; while
the view is closed by the mists rising from the
swamps of Ingermanland.
</p>

<p>
Turning from the <q>Great Side,</q> and looking
northward, the arms of the Neva diverge from
near the foot of the Admiralty tower, as the Perspectives
do from the southern side. The width
of the Neva, its yielding bottom and shores, and
the masses of ice which it sweeps down, make
the erection of bridges so difficult that they are
placed at very rare intervals, so that a person
might be obliged to go miles before reaching one.
But the stream is enlivened by boats and gondolas
ready to convey passengers from one bank
to the other. We were never weary of watching
with a glass from the Admiralty tower, alternately,
the river gay with boats and shipping,
and the Perspectives thronged with their brilliant
and motley crowd. With a somewhat different,
but certainly no less absorbing interest, we gazed
down from the same elevation into the works of
the citadel, upon Petersburg Island, whose minutest
details were clearly visible. This citadel is
useless as a defense of the city against a hostile
attack; but it furnishes a ready means of commanding
the capital, and furnishes a refuge for
the government in case of an insurrection. Like
the fortifications of Paris, it is designed not so
much to defend as to control the city.
</p>

<p>
St. Petersburg is certainly the most imposing
city, and Russia is the most imposing nation in
the world&mdash;at first sight. But the imposing aspect
of both is to a great extent an <emph>imposition</emph>.
The city tries to pass itself off for granite, when
a great proportion is of wood or brick, covered
with paint and stucco, which peels off in masses
before the frosts of every winter, and needs a
whole army of plasterers and painters every
spring to put it in presentable order. You pass
what appears a Grecian temple, and lo, it is only
a screen of painted boards. A one-storied house
assumes the airs of a loftier building, in virtue of
a front of another story bolted and braced to its
roof. And much even that is real is sadly out of
place. Long lines of balconies and pillars and
porticoes, which would be appropriate to Greece
or Italy, are for the greater part of the year piled
with snow-drifts. St. Petersburg and Russian
civilization are both of a growth too hasty, and
too much controlled from without, instead of proceeding
from a law of inward development, to be
enduring.
</p>

<p>
The capital to be seen to advantage must be
viewed during the few weeks of early summer;
or in the opening winter, when the snow forms
a pavement better than art can produce, and
when the cold has built a continuous bridge over
the Neva, without having as yet become severe
enough to drive every body from the streets.
</p>

<p>
The Neva is the main artery through which
pours the life-blood of St. Petersburg. But the
life-current is checked from the time when the
ice is too far weakened by the returning sun to
be passable, and not yet sufficiently broken up to
float down to the Gulf. At that time all intercourse
between portions of the city on its opposite
batiks is suspended. Every body is anxious
for the breaking-up of the ice. Luxuries from
more genial climes are waiting in the Baltic for
the river to be navigable. No sooner is the ice
so far cleared as to afford a practicable passage
for a boat, than the glad news is announced by
the artillery of the citadel, and, no matter what
the hour, the commandant and his suite hurry
into a gondola and push over to the Imperial
palace, directly opposite. The commandant fills
a large goblet with the icy fluid, and presents it
to the Emperor, informing him that his gondola,
the first which has that year crossed the river, is
the precursor of navigation. The Czar drains
the cup to the health of the capital, and returns
it, filled with ducats, to the commandant. Formerly
it was observed, by some mysterious law of
natural science, that this goblet grew larger and
larger, year by year, so that the Czar who had
swallowed Poland without flinching, and stood
ready to perform the same operation upon Turkey,
stood in danger of suffocation from his growing
bumpers. Some wise man at last suggested
that this tendency to the enlargement of the goblet
might be counteracted, by limiting the number
of ducats returned by way of acknowledgment.
The suggestion was acted upon, and,
greatly to the comfort of the Imperial purse and
stomach, was found to be perfectly successful.
The sum now given is two hundred ducats. This
goblet of Neva water is surely the most costly
draught ever quaffed since the time when brown-fronted
Cleopatra dissolved the pearl in honor of
mad Mark Antony.
</p>

<p>
The most striking winter spectacle of St. Petersburg,
to a foreigner, is that of the ice mountains.
They are in full glory during <q>Butter
Week</q>&mdash;of which more anon&mdash;when Russia
seems to forget her desire to be any thing but
Russian. The great Place of the Admiralty is
given up to the popular celebrations, and filled
with refreshment-booths, swings, and slides.
To form these ice mountains a narrow scaffold
is raised to the height of some thirty or forty
feet. This scaffold has on one side steps for the
purpose of ascending it; on the other it slopes
off, steeply at first, and then more gradually, until
it finally terminates on a level. Upon this
long slope blocks of ice are laid, over which water
is poured, which by freezing unites the blocks,
and furnishes a uniform surface, down which the
merry crowd slide upon sledges, or more frequently
upon blocks of smooth ice cut into an appropriate
form.
</p>

<p>
Two of these mountains usually stand opposite
and fronting each other, their tracks lying
close together, side by side.
</p>

<pb n='452'/><anchor id='Pg452'/>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p452.png' rend='width: 60%'>
    <head>Ice Mountain.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
This is a national amusement all over Russia.
Ice mountains are raised in the court-yards of
all the chief residents in the capital. And an
imitation of them, for summer use, covered with
some polished wood, instead of ice, is often found
in the halls of private dwellings. In the Imperial
palace is such a slide, built of mahogany.
</p>

<p>
Street-life in St. Petersburgh presents many
aspects strange to one who comes fresh from the
capitals of other countries. One of the first
things which will strike him is the silence and
desertion of most of the streets. The thronging,
eager crowd of other cities is here unknown.
There is room enough, and to spare here. Broad
streets, lined with rows of palaces, are as silent
and lonely as deserted Tadmor, and a solitary
<foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>droshka</foreign> breaking the uniformity of the
loneliness, heightens the effect. Leaving these broad, still
streets, and mingling in the throng that presses
in and through the Admiralty Place, the Nevskoi
Perspective, or the Place of St. Isaac, the most
noticeable feature, at first glance, is the preponderance
of the military. The ordinary garrison
of the capital amounts to 60,000 men. The Russian
army comprises an almost infinite variety
of uniforms, and specimens of these, worn by
<pb n='453'/><anchor id='Pg453'/>
the <foreign rend='italic'>lite</foreign> of every corps, are constantly in the capital.
</p>

<p>
There are the Tartar guards, and the Circassian
guards, Cossacks from the Don, from the
Ural, and from Crimea; guards with names ending
with <q><foreign rend='italic'>off</foreign></q> and
<q><foreign rend='italic'>ski</foreign>,</q> unpronounceable by
Western lips. The wild Circassian&mdash;enacting
the double part of soldier and
hostage&mdash;silver-harnessed
and mail-coated, alternates with the
skin-clad Cossack of the Ural, darting, lance in
rest, over the parade-ground. There are regiments
uniform not only in size of the men, color
of the horses, and identity of equipments, but in
the minuti of personal appearance. Of one, all
the men are pug-nosed, blue-eyed, and red bearded;
of another, every man has a nose like a hawk,
with eyes, hair and beard as black as a raven's
wing. Half the male population of St. Petersburg
wear uniform; for, besides these 60,000
soldiers, it is worn by officers of every grade, by
the police, and even by professors of the university,
and by teachers and pupils in the public
schools.
</p>

<p>
Turning from the military to the civil portion
of the population, the same brilliant variety of
costumes every where meets the eye. The sober-suited
native of western and civilized Europe,
jostles the brilliant silken robes of the Persian
or Bokharian; the Chinaman flaunts his dangling
pig-tail, ingeniously pieced out by artificial
means, in the face of the smoothly-shorn Englishman;
the white-toothed Arab meets the tobacco-stained
German; Yankee sailors and adventurers,
portly English merchants, canny Scotchmen,
dwarfish Finlanders, stupid Lettes, diminutive
Kamtschatkians, each in his own national
costume, make up a lively picture; while underlying
all, and more worthy of note than all, are
the true Russian peasantry; the original stock
out of which Peter and his successors have fashioned
their mighty empire.
</p>

<p>
The Russian of the lower orders is any thing
but an inviting personage, at first sight. The
name by which they have been designated, in
their own language, time out of mind, describes
them precisely. It is <foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>tschornoi
narod</foreign>, <q>the dirty
people,</q> or as we might more freely render it,
<q>The Great Unwashed.</q> An individual of this
class is called a <foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>mujik</foreign>. He is usually of
middle stature, with small light eyes, level cheeks,
and flat nose, of which the tip is turned up so as
to display the somewhat expanded nostril. His
pride and glory is his beard, which he wears as
long and shaggy as nature will allow. The back
of the head is shaved closely; and as he wears
nothing about his neck, his head stands distinctly
away from his body. His ideal of the beauty of
the human head, as seen from behind, seems to
be to make it resemble, as nearly as may be, a
turnip. He is always noisy and never clean; and
when wrapped in his sheepskin mantle, or <foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>caftan</foreign>
of blue cloth reaching to his knees, might easily
enough be taken for a bandit. As he seldom
thinks of changing his inner garments more than
once a week, and as his outer raiment lasts half
his lifetime, and is never laid aside during the
night, and never washed, he constantly affords
evidence of his presence any thing but agreeable
to the organs of smell. But a closer acquaintance
will bring to light many traits of character
which belie his rude exterior; and will show
him to be at bottom a good-natured, merry,
friendly fellow. His most striking characteristic
is pliability and dexterity. If he does not possess
the power of originating, he has a wonderful
faculty of copying the ideas of others, and of
yielding himself up to carry out the conceptions
of any one who wishes to use him for the accomplishment
of his ends. There is an old German
myth which says that the Teutonic race was
framed, in the depths of time, out of the hard,
unyielding granite. The original material of the
Russian race must have been Indian rubber, so
easily are they compressed into any form, and so
readily do they resume their own, when the pressure
is removed. The raw, untrained <foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>mujik</foreign> is
drafted into the army, and in a few weeks attains
a precision of movement more like an automaton
than a human being. He becomes a trader, and
the Jews themselves can not match him in cunning
and artifice.
</p>

<p>
The <foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>mujik</foreign> is a thoroughly good-tempered fellow.
Address him kindly, and his face unbends
at once, and you will find that he takes a sincere
delight in doing you a kindness. In no capital
of Europe are the temptations to crimes against
the person so numerous as in St. Petersburg, with
its broad lonely streets, unlighted at night, and
scantily patrolled; but in no capital are such
crimes of so rare occurrence.
</p>

<p>
But the <foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>mujik</foreign> has two faults. He is a thorough
rogue, and a great drunkard. He will cheat
and guzzle from sheer love for the practices; and
without the least apparent feeling that there is
any thing out of the way in so doing. But in his
cups he is the same good-natured fellow. The
Irishman or Scotchman when drunk is quarrelsome
and pugnacious; the German or the Englishman,
stupid and brutal; the Spaniard or Italian,
revengeful and treacherous. The first stages
of drunkenness in the <foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>mujik</foreign> are manifested by
loquacity. The drunker he is the more gay and
genial does he grow; till at last he is ready to
throw himself upon the neck of his worst enemy
and exchange embraces with him. When the
last stage has been reached, and he starts for his
home, he does not reel, but marches straight on,
till some accidental obstruction trips him up into
the mire, where he lies unnoticed and unmolested
till a policeman takes charge of him. This
misadventure is turned to public advantage, for
by an old custom every person, male or female,
of what grade soever, taken up drunk in the street
by the police, is obliged the next day to sweep
the streets for a certain number of hours. In our
early rambles we often came across a woeful
group thus improving the ways of others, in punishment
for having taken too little heed of their
own.
</p>

<p>
<foreign rend='italic'>In vino veritas</foreign> may perhaps be true of the
juice of the grape; but it is not so of the bad
brandy which is the favorite drink of the
<foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>mujik</foreign>.
<pb n='454'/><anchor id='Pg454'/>
He is never too drunk to be a rogue, but yet you
do not look upon his roguery as you do upon that
of any other people. He never professes to be
honest; and does not see any reason why he
should be so. He seems so utterly unconscious
of any thing reprehensible in roguery, that you
unconsciously give him the benefit of his ignorance.
If he victimizes you, you look upon him
as upon a clever professor of legerdemain, who
has cheated you in spite of your senses; but you
hardly hold him morally responsible. Upon the
whole, though you can not respect the <foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>mujik</foreign>,
you can hardly avoid having a sort of liking for him.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p454.png' rend='width: 60%'>
    <head>Punishment For Drunkenness.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Perhaps the most thoroughly Russian of all the
<foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>tschornoi narod</foreign> are the
<foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>isvoshtshiks</foreign>, or public
drivers; at least they are the class with whom
the traveler comes most immediately and necessarily
into contact, and from whom he derives his
idea of them. Such is the extent of St. Petersburg,
that when the foreigner has sated his curiosity
with the general aspect of the streets, he
finds that he can not afford time to walk from one
object of interest to another. Moreover, in winter&mdash;and
here winter means fully six months in
the year&mdash;the streets are spread with a thick
covering of snow, which soon becomes beaten up
into powdered crystals, through which locomotion
is as difficult as through the deepest sands
of Sahara; and the wind whirls these keen crystals
about like the sand-clouds of the desert.
Every body not to the manner born, whose pleasures
or avocations call him abroad, is glad to
draw his mantle over his face, and creeping into
a sledge, wrap himself up as closely as he may
in furs. In spring and summer, when the streets
are usually either a marsh or choked with intolerable
dust, pedestrianism is equally disagreeable.
All this has called into requisition a host of Jehus,
so that the stranger who has mastered enough
Russian to call out <foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>Davai ishvoshtshik</foreign>!
<q>Here, driver!</q> or even lifts his hand by way of signal,
has seldom need to repeat the summons.
</p>

<p>
Like his cart-borne kindred, the Tartars and
Scythians, the <foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>ishvoshtshik</foreign>
makes his vehicle his home. In it he eats, drinks, and often sleeps,
rolling himself up into a ball in the bottom, to
<pb n='455'/><anchor id='Pg455'/>
present as little surface as possible
to the action of the cold.&mdash;Russian-like,
he always names a
price for his services that will
leave ample room for abatement.
But once engaged, and he is for
the time being your servant, and
accepts any amount of abuse or
beating as the natural condition
of the bargain.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p455.png' rend='width: 60%'>
    <head>Ishvoshtshiks.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
The <foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>mujik</foreign> of every class seems
indeed to be born ready bitted, for
the use of anyone who has a hand
steady enough to hold the reins.
They are the best servants in the
world for one who has the gift
of command. It is this adaptation
between the strong-willed
autocrats who since Peter have
swayed the destinies of Russia,
and the serviceable nature of the
people, that has raised the empire
to its present position. A
single weak ruler would change
the whole destiny of Russia.
</p>

<p>
Notwithstanding the hardships
of their lives, the <foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>isvoshtshiks</foreign> are
good-natured, merry, harmless,
fellows, whether waiting for a
fare or bantering a customer.
But they have one thorn; and that is the pedestrian.
Woe to the driver who runs against a
foot-man; fine and flogging are his portion. If
the pedestrian be thrown down, visions of Siberia
float before the driver's eye; to say nothing of
the pleasant foretaste of the policeman's cane and
the confiscation of his vehicle.
</p>

<p>
Notwithstanding the general characteristic of
laxity of principle, instances are by no means
wanting of the most scrupulous and even romantic
fidelity on the part of the Russians of the
lower orders. It would be an interesting subject
of investigation, how far this patent trait of national
character is to be attributed to inherent
constitutional defects in the race; and how far
to the state of serfdom in which they have existed
from generation to generation. But the
investigation does not fall within the scope of
our <q>Recollections.</q>
</p>

<p>
Our friends in the greasy sheepskins or woolen
caftans have strong religious tendencies, though
they may smack a little too much of those of the
tight-fingered Smyrniote whom we detected purchasing
candles to light before his patron saint,
with the first-fruits of the purse of which he had
not ten minutes before relieved our pocket. In
all places where men congregate there are pictures
of saints before which the <foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>mujik</foreign> crosses
himself on every occasion. In an inn or restaurant
each visitor turns to the picture and crosses himself
before he sits down to eat. If a <foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>mujik</foreign> enters
your room he crosses himself before saluting you.
Every church is saluted with a sign of the cross.
At frequent intervals in the streets little shrines
are found, before which every body stops and
makes the sacred sign, with bared head. The
merchant in the <foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>gostunoi dvor</foreign> or bazaar, every
now and then walks up to his <foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>bog</foreign> or saint, and
with a devout inclination prays for success in trade.
</p>

<p>
No one has seen St. Petersburg who has not
been there at Easter. The Greek Church finds
great virtues in fasting; and a prolonged fast-time
implies a subsequent carnival. The rigor
of the Russian fasts strictly excludes every article
of food containing the least particle of animal
matter. Flesh and fowl are, of course, rigorously
<foreign rend='italic'>tabooed</foreign>; so are milk, eggs, butter; and even sugar,
on account of the animal matter used in refining
it, of which a small portion might possibly
remain. The fast preceding Easter, called, by
way of eminence, <q>The Great Fast,</q> lasts seven
full weeks, and is observed with a strictness unknown
even in Catholic countries. The lower
classes refrain even from fish during the first and
last of these seven weeks, as well as on Wednesdays
and Fridays in the remaining five. When
we reflect how large a part some or all of these
animal substances form of the <foreign rend='italic'>cuisine</foreign> of all northern
nations, and in Russia most of all, we shall
be ready to believe that this Great Fast is an important
epoch in the Russian calendar, and is not
to be encountered without a preparatory period
of feasting, the recollection of which may serve
to mitigate the enforced abstinence.
</p>

<p>
Among the upper classes in St. Petersburg
balls, routs, and all carnival revelries begin to
crowd thick and fast upon each other as early as
the commencement of February. But the mass
of the people compress these preparatory exercises
into the week before the beginning of the
fast. This is the famous <foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>Masslnitza</foreign>
or <q>Butter Week,</q> which contains the sum and substance
<pb n='456'/><anchor id='Pg456a'/>
of all Russian festivity. All the butter
that should naturally have gone into the consumption
of the succeeding seven weeks is concentrated
into this. Whatever can be eaten with
butter is buttered; what can not, is eschewed.
The standard dish of the week is <foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>blinni</foreign>, a
kind of pancake, made with butter; fried in butter, and
eaten with butter-sauce. For this one week the
great national dish of <foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>shtshee</foreign> or cabbage-soup
is banished from the land.
</p>

<p>
Breakfast dispatched, then come the amusements.
Formerly the swings, ice-mountains, and
temporary theatres were erected upon the frozen
plain of the Neva. But some years since, the ice
gave way under the immense pressure, and a
large number of the revelers were drowned. Since
that time the great square of the Admiralty has
been devoted to this purpose. For days previous,
long trains of sledges are seen thronging to the
spot, bearing timbers, poles, planks, huge blocks
of ice, and all the materials necessary for the
erection of booths, theatres, swings, and slides.
These temporary structures are easily and speedily
reared. A hole is dug in the frozen ground,
into which the end of a post is placed. It is then
filled with water, which under the influence of a
Russian February binds it in its place as firmly
as though it were leaded into a solid rock. The
carnival commences on the first Sunday of the
Butter Week, and all St. Petersburg gives itself
up to sliding and swinging, or to watching the
sliding and swinging of others. By a wise regulation
eating and drinking shops are not allowed
in the square, and the staple potable and comestibles
are tea, cakes, and nuts. Few more animated
and stirring sights are to be seen than the
Admiralty square at noon, when the mirth is at
the highest among the lower orders, and when all
the higher classes make their appearance driving
in regular line along a broad space, in front of the
booths, reserved for the equipages. Every body
in St. Petersburg of any pretensions to rank or
wealth keeps a carriage of some kind; and every
carriage, crowded with the family in their gayest
attire, joins in the procession.
</p>

<p>
Butter Week, with its <foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>blinni</foreign> and ice mountains
passes away all too quickly, and is succeeded
by the grim seven weeks' fast. The Admiralty
square looks desolate enough, lumbered over
with fragments of the late joyous paraphernalia,
and strewed with nut-shells and orange-peel.
Public amusements, of almost all kinds are prohibited,
and time passes on with gloomy monotony,
only broken by a stray saint's day, like a
gleam of sunshine across a murky sky. It is
worth while to be a saint, in Russia, if his day
falls during the Great Fast, for it will be sure to
be celebrated with most exemplary fervor.
</p>

<p>
As the fast draws near its close, preparation
s on tiptoe for a change. The egg-market begins
to rise, owing to the demand for <q>Easter-eggs,</q>
for on that day it is customary to present
an egg to every acquaintance on first greeting
him. This has given rise to a very pretty custom
of giving presents of artificial eggs of every
variety of material, and frequently with the most
elegant decorations. The Imperial glass manufactory
furnishes an immense number of eggs of
glass, with cut flowers and figures, designed as
presents from the Czar and Czarina.
</p>

<p>
Saturday night before Easter at last comes and
goes. As the midnight hour which is to usher
in Easter-day approaches, the churches begin to
fill. The court appears in the Imperial chapel
in full dress; and the people, of all ages, ranks,
and conditions, throng their respective places of
worship. Not a priest, however, is to be seen
until the midnight hour strikes, when the entrance
to the sanctuary of the church is flung
open, and the song peals forth&mdash;<foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>Christohs
vosskress! Christohs vosskress ihs mortvui</foreign>&mdash;<q>Christ
is risen! Christ is risen from the dead!</q> The
priests in their richest robes press through the
throng, bowing and swinging their censers before
the shrine of the saints, repeating the <q>Christ
is risen!</q> The congregation grasp each other's
hands, those acquainted, however distantly, embracing
and kissing, repeating the same words.
The churches are at once in a blaze of illumination
within and without; and all over the city
cannons boom, rockets hiss, and bells peal in
token of joy. The Great Fast is over, and the
Easter festival has begun.
</p>

<p>
In the churches the ceremony of blessing the
food is going on. The whole pavement, unencumbered
with pews or seats, is covered with
dishes ranged in long rows, with passages between
for the officiating priests, who pace along,
sprinkling holy water to the right and left, and
pronouncing the form of benediction; the owner
of each dish all the while on a keen look-out
that his food does not fail of receiving some drops
of the sanctifying fluid. Before daylight all this
is accomplished; and then come visitings and
banquets, congratulations of the season, bowings,
hand-shakings, and, above all, kissing.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p456.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Kissing.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p457a.png' rend='width: 40%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Kissing.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p457b.png' rend='width: 40%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Kissing.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p457c.png' rend='width: 40%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Kissing.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
All Russia breaks out now into an Oriental
exuberance of kisses. What arithmetic shall
undertake to compute the osculatory expenditure?
Every member of a family salutes every
other member with a kiss. All acquaintances,
<pb n='457'/><anchor id='Pg457'/>
however slight, greet with a kiss and a <foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>Christohs
vosskress</foreign>. Long-robed <foreign lang='ru' rend='italic'>mujiks</foreign>
mingle beards and kisses, or brush their hirsute honors over the
faces of their female acquaintances. In the public
offices all the <foreign rend='italic'>employes</foreign> salute each other and
their superiors. So in the army. The general
embraces and kisses all the officers of the corps;
the colonel of a regiment those beneath him, besides
a deputation of the soldiers; and the captain
salutes all the men of his company. The
Czar does duty at Easter. He must of course
salute his family and retinue, his court and attendants.
But this is not all. On parade he
goes through the ceremony with his officers, and
a selected body of privates, who stand as representatives
of the rest, and even with the sentinels
at the palace gates. So amid smiles and
handshakings, and exclamations of <q>Christ has
arisen!</q> pass on the days of the Easter festival.
Ample amends are made for the long abstinence
of the Great Fast, by unbounded indulgence in
the coveted animal food, to say nothing of the
copious libations of brandy&mdash;evidences of which
are visible enough in groups of amateur street-sweepers
who subsequently are seen plying their
brooms in the early morning hours. Such is St.
Petersburg, when most Russian.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>A Love Affair At Cranford.</head>

<p>
I am tempted to relate it, as having interested
me in a quiet sort of way, and as being the
latest intelligence of Our Society at Cranford.
</p>

<p>
I thought, after Miss Jenkyns's death, that
probably my connection with Cranford would
cease; at least that it would have to be kept up
by correspondence, which bears much the same
relation to personal intercourse that the books of
dried plants I sometimes see (<q>Hortus Siccus,</q>
I think they call the thing), do to the living and
fresh flowers in the lanes and meadows. I was
pleasantly surprised, therefore, by receiving a
letter from Miss Pole (who had always come in
for a supplementary week after my annual visit
to Miss Jenkyns), proposing that I should go and
stay with her; and then, in a couple of days
after my acceptance, came a note from Miss Matey,
in which, in a rather circuitous and very
humble manner, she told me how much pleasure
I should confer, if I could spend a week or two
with her, either before or after I had been at
Miss Pole's; <q>for,</q> she said, <q>since my dear
sister's death, I am well aware I have no attractions
to offer; it is only to the kindness of my
friends that I can owe their company.</q>
</p>

<p>
Of course, I promised to come to dear Miss
Matey, as soon as I had ended my visit to Miss
Pole; and the day after my arrival at Cranford,
I went to see her, much wondering what the
house would be like without Miss Jenkyns, and
rather dreading the changed aspect of things.
Miss Matey began to cry as soon as she saw me.
She was evidently nervous from having anticipated
my call. I comforted her as well as I
could; and I found the best consolation I could
give, was the honest praise that came from my
heart as I spoke of the deceased. Miss Matey
slowly shook her head over each virtue as it was
named, and attributed to her sister; at last she
could not restrain the tears which had long been
silently flowing, but hid her face behind her
handkerchief, and sobbed aloud.
</p>

<p>
<q>Dear Miss Matey!</q> said I, taking her hand&mdash;for
indeed I did know in what way to tell her
how sorry I was for her, left deserted in the world.
She put down her handkerchief, and said,
</p>

<p>
<q>My dear, I'd rather you did not call me
<pb n='458'/><anchor id='Pg458'/>
Matey. <emph>She</emph> did not like it; but I did many a
thing she did not like, I'm afraid&mdash;and now she's
gone! If you please, my love, will you call me
Matilda?</q>
</p>

<p>
I promised faithfully, and began to practice
the new name with Miss Pole that very day;
and, by degrees, Miss Matilda's feelings on the
subject were known through Cranford, and the
appellation of Matey was dropped by all, except
a very old woman who had been nurse in the
rector's family, and had persevered through many
long years, in calling the Miss Jenkynses <q>the
girls;</q> she said <q>Matey,</q> to the day of her
death.
</p>

<p>
My visit to Miss Pole was very quiet. Miss
Jenkyns had so long taken the lead in Cranford,
that, now she was gone, they hardly knew how
to give a party. The Honorable Mrs. Jamieson,
to whom Miss Jenkyns herself had always yielded
the post of honor, was fat and inert and very
much at the mercy of her old servants. If they
chose her to give a party, they reminded her of
the necessity for so doing; if not, she let it alone.
There was all the more time for me to hear old-world
stories from Miss Pole, while she sat knitting,
and I making my father's shirts. I always
took a quantity of plain sewing to Cranford; for,
as we did not read much, or walk much, I found
it a capital time to get through my work. One
of Miss Pole's stories related to the love affair
I am coming to; gradually, not in a hurry, for
we are never in a hurry at Cranford.
</p>

<p>
Presently, the time arrived, when I was to
remove to Miss Matilda's house. I found her
timid and anxious about the arrangements for
my comfort. Many a time, while I was unpacking,
did she come backward and forward to stir
the fire, which burned all the worse for being so
frequently poked.
</p>

<p>
<q>Have you drawers enough, dear?</q> asked
she. <q>I don't know exactly how my sister used
to arrange them. She had capital methods. I
am sure she would have trained a servant in a
week to make a better fire than this, and Fanny
has been with me four months.</q>
</p>

<p>
This subject of servants was a standing grievance,
and I could not wonder much at it; for if
gentlemen were scarce, and almost unheard of in
the <q>genteel society</q> of Cranford, they or their
counterparts&mdash;handsome young men&mdash;abounded
in the lower classes. The pretty, neat servant-maids
had their choice of desirable <q>followers;</q>
and their mistresses, without having the sort of
mysterious dread of men and matrimony that Miss
Matilda had, might well feel a little anxious, lest
the heads of their comely maids should be turned
by the joiner, or the butcher, or the gardener;
who were obliged by their callings, to come to
the house; and who, as ill-luck would have it,
were generally handsome and unmarried. Fanny's
lovers, if she had any&mdash;and Miss Matilda
suspected her of so many flirtations, that, if she
had not been very pretty, I should have doubted
her having one&mdash;were a constant anxiety to her
mistress. She was forbidden, by the articles of
her engagement, to have <q>followers;</q> and though
she had answered innocently enough, doubling
up the hem of her apron as she spoke, <q>Please,
ma'am, I never had more than one at a time,</q>
Miss Matey prohibited that one. But a vision
of a man seemed to haunt the kitchen. Fanny
assured me that it was all fancy; or else I should
have said myself that I had seen a man's coat-tails
whisk into the scullery once, when I went on an
errand into the store-room at night; and another
evening when, our watches having stopped, I
went to look at the clock, there was a very odd
appearance, singularly like a young man squeezed
up between the clock and the back of the open
kitchen-door; and I thought Fanny snatched up
the candle very hastily, so as to throw the shadow
on the clock-face, while she very positively told
me the time half-an-hour too early, as we found
out afterward by the church-clock. But I did
not add to Miss Matey's anxieties by naming
my suspicions, especially as Fanny said to me,
the next day, that it was such a queer kitchen
for having odd shadows about it, she really was
almost afraid to stay; <q>for you know, Miss,</q>
she added, <q>I don't see a creature from six
o'clock tea, till missus rings the bell for prayers
at ten.</q>
</p>

<p>
However, it so fell out that Fanny had to
leave; and Miss Matilda begged me to stay and
<q>settle her</q> with the new maid; to which I
consented, after I had heard from my father that
he did not want me at home. The new servant
was a rough, honest-looking country-girl, who
had only lived in a farm-place before; but I liked
her looks when she came to be hired; and I
promised Miss Matilda to put her in the ways
of the house. These said ways were religiously
such as Miss Matilda thought her sister would
approve. Many a domestic rule and regulation
had been a subject of plaintive whispered murmur,
to me, during Miss Jenkyns's life; but now
that she was gone, I do not think that even I,
who was a favorite, durst have suggested an alteration.
To give an instance: we constantly
adhered to the forms which were observed, at
meal times, <q>in my father the rector's house.</q>
Accordingly, we had always wine and dessert;
but the decanters were only filled when there
was a party; and what remained was seldom
touched, though we had two wine glasses apiece
every day after dinner, until the next festive
occasion arrived; when the state of the remainder
wine was examined into, in a family council.
The dregs were often given to the poor; but
occasionally when a good deal had been left, at
the last party (five months ago, it might be) it
was added to some of a fresh bottle, brought up
from the cellar. I fancy poor Captain Brown
did not much like wine; for I noticed he never
finished his first glass, and most military men
take several. Then, as to our dessert, Miss Jenkyns
used to gather currants and gooseberries
for it herself, which I sometimes thought would
have tasted better fresh from the trees; but then,
as Miss Jenkyns observed, there would have
been nothing for dessert in summer-time. As
it was, we felt very genteel with our two glasses
<pb n='459'/><anchor id='Pg459'/>
apiece, and a dish of gooseberries at the top, of
currants and biscuits at the sides, and two decanters
at the bottom. When oranges came in,
a curious proceeding was gone through. Miss
Jenkyns did not like to cut the fruit; for, as she
observed, the juice all ran out, nobody knew
where; sucking (only, I think, she used some
more recondite word) was in fact the only way
of enjoying oranges; but then there was the
unpleasant association with a ceremony frequently
gone through by little babies; and so, after
dessert, in orange season, Miss Jenkyns and
Miss Matey used to rise up, possess themselves
each of an orange in silence, and withdraw to
the privacy of their own rooms, to indulge in
sucking oranges.
</p>

<p>
I had once or twice tried, on such occasions,
to prevail on Miss Matey to stay; and had succeeded
in her sister's life-time. I held up a
screen, and did not look, and, as she said, she
tried not to make the noise very offensive; but
now that she was left alone, she seemed quite
horrified when I begged her to remain with me
in the warm dining-parlor, and enjoy her orange
as she liked best. And so it was in every thing.
Miss Jenkyns's rules were made more stringent
than ever, because the framer of them was gone
where there could be no appeal. In every thing
else Miss Matilda was meek and undecided to a
fault. I have heard Fanny turn her round twenty
times in a morning about dinner, just as the
little hussy chose; and I sometimes fancied she
worked on Miss Matilda's weakness, in order to
bewilder her, and to make her feel more in the
power of her clever servant. I determined that
I would not leave her till I had seen what sort
of a person Martha was; and, if I found her
trustworthy, I would tell her not to trouble her
mistress with every little decision.
</p>

<p>
Martha was blunt and plain-spoken to a fault;
otherwise she was a brisk, well-meaning, but very
ignorant girl. She had not been with us a week
before Miss Matilda and I were astounded one
morning by the receipt of a letter from a cousin
of hers, who had been twenty or thirty years in
India, and who had lately, as we had seen by
the Army List, returned to England, bringing
with him an invalid wife, who had never been
introduced to her English relations. Major
Jenkyns wrote to propose that he and his wife
should spend a night at Cranford, on his way to
Scotland&mdash;at the inn, if it did not suit Miss Matilda
to receive them into her house; in which
case they should hope to be with her as much as
possible during the day. Of course, it must suit
her, as she said; for all Cranford knew that she
had her sister's bedroom at liberty; but I am
sure she wished the Major had stopped in India
and forgotten his cousins out and out.
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh! how must I manage!</q> asked she, helplessly.
<q>If Deborah had been alive, she would
have known what to do with a gentleman-visitor.
Must I put razors in his dressing-room? Dear!
dear! and I've got none. Deborah would have
had them. And slippers, and coat-brushes?</q> I
suggested that probably he would bring all these
things with him. <q>And after dinner, how am
I to know when to get up, and leave him to his
wine? Deborah would have done it so well;
she would have been quite in her element. Will
he want coffee, do you think?</q> I undertook the
management of the coffee, and told her I would
instruct Martha in the art of waiting, in which it
must be owned she was terribly deficient; and
that I had no doubt Major and Mrs. Jenkyns
would understand the quiet mode in which a
lady lived by herself in a country town. But
she was sadly fluttered. I made her empty her
decanters, and bring up two fresh bottles of wine.
I wished I could have prevented her from being
present at my instructions to Martha; for she
continually cut in with some fresh direction,
muddling the poor girl's mind, as she stood open-mouthed,
listening to us both.
</p>

<p>
<q>Hand the vegetables round,</q> said I (foolishly,
I see now&mdash;for it was aiming at more than we
could accomplish with quietness and simplicity);
and then, seeing her look bewildered, I added,
<q>Take the vegetables round to people, and let
them help themselves.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And mind you go first to the ladies,</q> put in
Miss Matilda. <q>Always go to the ladies before
gentlemen, when you are waiting.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I'll do it as you tell me, ma'am,</q> said Martha;
<q>but I like lads best.</q>
</p>

<p>
We felt very uncomfortable and shocked at this
speech of Martha's; yet I don't think she meant
any harm; and, on the whole, she attended very
well to our directions, except that she <q>nudged</q>
the Major, when he did not help himself as soon
as she expected, to the potatoes, while she was
handing them round.
</p>

<p>
The Major and his wife were quiet, unpretending
people enough when they did come; languid,
as all East Indians are, I suppose. We were
rather dismayed at their bringing two servants
with them, a Hindoo body-servant for the Major,
and a steady elderly maid for his wife; but they
slept at the inn, and took off a good deal of the
responsibility by attending carefully to their
master's and mistress's comfort. Martha, to be
sure, had never ended her staring at the East
Indian's white turban, and brown complexion,
and I saw that Miss Matilda shrunk away from
him a little as he waited at dinner. Indeed, she
asked me, when they were gone, if he did not
remind me of Blue Beard? On the whole, the
visit was most satisfactory, and is a subject of
conversation even now with Miss Matilda; at the
time it greatly excited Cranford, and even stirred
up the apathetic and Honorable Mrs. Jamieson to
some expression of interest when I went to call
and thank her for the kind answers she had
vouchsafed to Miss Matilda's inquiries as to the
arrangement of a gentleman's dressing-room&mdash;answers
which I must confess she had given in
the wearied manner of the Scandinavian prophetess&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<q>Leave me, leave me to repose.</q>
</quote>

<p>
And <emph>now</emph> I come to the love affair.
</p>

<p>
It seems that Miss Pole had a cousin, once or
twice removed, who had offered to Miss Matey
<pb n='460'/><anchor id='Pg460'/>
long ago. Now, this cousin lived four or five
miles from Cranford on his own estate; but his
property was not large enough to entitle him to
rank higher than a yeoman; or rather, with something
of the <q>pride which apes humility,</q> he had
refused to push himself on, as so many of his
class had done, into the ranks of the squires. He
would not allow himself to be called Thomas
Holbrook, Esq.; he even sent back letters with
this address, telling the postmistress at Cranford
that his name was Mr. Thomas Holbrook, yeoman.
He rejected all domestic innovations; he
would have the house door stand open in summer,
and shut in winter, without knocker or bell
to summon a servant. The closed fist or the
knob of the stick did this office for him, if he
found the door locked. He despised every refinement
which had not its root deep down in humanity.
If people were not ill, he saw no necessity
for moderating his voice. He spoke the
dialect of the country in perfection, and constantly
used it in conversation; although Miss
Pole (who gave me these particulars) added, that
he read aloud more beautifully and with more
feeling than any one she had ever heard, except
the late Rector.
</p>

<p>
<q>And how came Miss Matilda not to marry
him?</q> asked I.
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, I don't know. She was willing enough,
I think; but you know Cousin Thomas would
not have been enough of a gentleman for the
Rector, and Mrs. and Miss Jenkyns.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well! but they were not to marry him,</q> said
I, impatiently.
</p>

<p>
<q>No; but they did not like Miss Matey to
marry below her rank. You know she was the
Rector's daughter, and somehow they are related
to Sir Peter Arley: Miss Jenkyns thought a deal
of that.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Poor Miss Matey!</q> said I.
</p>

<p>
<q>Nay, now, I don't know any thing more than
that he offered and was refused. Miss Matey
might not like him&mdash;and Miss Jenkyns might
never have said a word&mdash;it is only a guess of
mine.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Has she never seen him since?</q> I inquired.
</p>

<p>
<q>No, I think not. You see, Woodley, Cousin
Thomas's house, lies half-way between Cranford
and Misselton; and I know he made Misselton
his market-town very soon after he had offered
to Miss Matey; and I don't think he has been
into Cranford above once or twice since&mdash;once,
when I was walking with Miss Matey in High-street;
and suddenly she darted from me, and
went up Shire-lane. A few minutes after I was
startled by meeting Cousin Thomas.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>How old is he?</q> I asked, after a pause of
castle-building.
</p>

<p>
<q>He must be about seventy, I think, my dear,</q>
said Miss Pole, blowing up my castle, as if by
gunpowder, into small fragments.
</p>

<p>
Very soon after&mdash;at least during my long visit
to Miss Matilda&mdash;I had the opportunity of seeing
Mr. Holbrook; seeing, too, his first encounter
with his former love, after thirty or forty years'
separation. I was helping to decide whether
any of the new assortment of colored silks which
they had just received at the shop, would help
to match a gray and black mousseline-de-laine
that wanted a new breadth, when a tall, thin,
Don Quixote-looking old man came into the shop
for some woolen gloves. I had never seen the
person (who was rather striking) before, and I
watched him rather attentively, while Miss Matey
listened to the shopman. The stranger wore a
blue coat with brass buttons, drab breeches, and
gaiters, and drummed with his fingers on the
counter until he was attended to. When he answered
the shop-boy's question, <q>What can I
have the pleasure of showing you to-day, sir?</q>
I saw Miss Matilda start, and then suddenly sit
down; and instantly I guessed who it was.
She had made some inquiry which had to be
carried round to the other shopman.
</p>

<p>
<q>Miss Jenkyns wants the black sarcenet two-and-twopence
the yard;</q> and Mr. Holbrook had
caught the name, and was across the shop in two
strides.
</p>

<p>
<q>Matey&mdash;Miss Matilda&mdash;Miss Jenkyns! God
bless my soul! I should not have known you.
How are you? how are you?</q> He kept shaking
her hand in a way which proved the warmth of
his friendship; but he repeated so often, as if to
himself, <q>I should not have known you!</q> that
any sentimental romance which I might be inclined
to build, was quite done away with by his
manner.
</p>

<p>
However, he kept talking to us all the time we
were in the shop; and then waving the shopman
with the unpurchased gloves on one side, with
<q>Another time, sir! another time!</q> he walked
home with us. I am happy to say my client,
Miss Matilda, also left the shop in an equally
bewildered state, not having purchased either
green or red silk. Mr. Holbrook was evidently
full with honest, loud-spoken joy at meeting his
old love again; he touched on the changes that
had taken place; he even spoke of Miss Jenkyns
as <q>Your poor sister! Well, well! we have all
our faults;</q> and bade us good-by with many a
hope that he should soon see Miss Matey again.
She went straight to her room; and never came
back till our early tea-time, when I thought she
looked as if she had been crying.
</p>

<p>
A few days after, a note came from Mr. Holbrook,
asking us&mdash;impartially asking both of us&mdash;in
a formal, old-fashioned style, to spend a day
at his house&mdash;a long June day&mdash;for it was June
now. He named that he had also invited his
cousin, Miss Pole; so that we might join in a
fly, which could be put up at his house.
</p>

<p>
I expected Miss Matey to jump at this invitation;
but, no! Miss Pole and I had the greatest
difficulty in persuading her to go. She thought
it was improper; and was even half-annoyed
when we utterly ignored the idea of any impropriety
in her going with two other ladies to see
her old lover. Then came a more serious difficulty.
She did not think Deborah would have
liked her to go. This took us half a day's good
hard talking to get over; but, at the first sentence
of relenting, I seized the opportunity, and wrote
<pb n='461'/><anchor id='Pg461'/>
and dispatched an acceptance in her name&mdash;fixing
day and hour, that all might be decided and
done with.
</p>

<p>
The next morning she asked me if I would go
down to the shop with her; and there, after much
hesitation, we chose out three caps to be sent
home and tried on, that the most becoming might
be selected to take with us on Thursday.
</p>

<p>
She was in a state of silent agitation all the
way to Woodley. She had evidently never been
there before; and, although she little dreamt I
knew any thing of her early story, I could perceive
she was in a tremor at the thought of seeing
the place which might have been her home,
and round which it is probable that many of her
innocent girlish imaginations had clustered. It
was a long drive there, through paved jolting
lanes. Miss Matilda sate bolt upright, and looked
wistfully out of the windows, as we drew near
the end of our journey. The aspect of the country
was quiet and pastoral. Woodley stood
among fields; and there was an old-fashioned
garden, where roses and currant-bushes touched
each other, and where the feathery asparagus
formed a pretty back-ground to the pinks and
gilly-flowers; there was no drive up to the door;
we got out at a little gate, and walked up a
straight box-edged path.
</p>

<p>
<q>My cousin might make a drive, I think,</q>
said Miss Pole, who was afraid of ear-ache, and
had only her cap on.
</p>

<p>
<q>I think it is very pretty,</q> said Miss Matey,
with a soft plaintiveness in her voice, and almost
in a whisper; for just then Mr. Holbrook appeared
at the door, rubbing his hands in very effervescence
of hospitality. He looked more like
my idea of Don Quixote than ever, and yet the
likeness was only external. His respectable
housekeeper stood modestly at the door to bid us
welcome; and, while she led the elder ladies upstairs
to a bed-room, I begged to look about the
garden. My request evidently pleased the old
gentleman; who took me all round the place,
and showed me his six-and-twenty cows, named
after the different letters of the alphabet. As
we went along, he surprised me occasionally by
repeating apt and beautiful quotations from the
poets, ranging easily from Shakspeare and George
Herbert to those of our own day. He did this
as naturally as if he were thinking aloud, that
their true and beautiful words were the best expression
he could find for what he was thinking
or feeling. To be sure he called Byron <q>my
Lord Byron,</q> and pronounced the name of
Goethe strictly in accordance with the English
sound of the letters&mdash;<q>As Gothe says, 'Ye ever
verdant palaces,'</q> &amp;c. Altogether, I never met
with a man, before or since, who had spent so
long a life in a secluded and not impressive
country, with ever-increasing delight in the daily
and yearly change of season and beauty.
</p>

<p>
When he and I went in, we found that dinner
was nearly ready in the kitchen&mdash;for so I suppose
the room ought to be called, as there were
oak dressers and cupboards all round, all over by
the side of the fire-place, and only a small Turkey-carpet
in the middle of the flag-floor. The room
might have been easily made into a handsome
dark-oak dining-parlor, by removing the oven,
and a few other appurtenances of a kitchen,
which were evidently never used; the real cooking-place
being at some distance. The room in
which we were expected to sit was a stiffly furnished,
ugly apartment; but that in which we
did sit was what Mr. Holbrook called the counting-house,
where he paid his laborers their weekly
wages, at a great desk near the door. The
rest of the pretty sitting-room&mdash;looking into the
orchard, and all covered over with dancing tree-shadows&mdash;was
filled with books. They lay on
the ground, they covered the walls, they strewed
the table. He was evidently half ashamed and
half proud of his extravagance in this respect.
They were of all kinds&mdash;poetry, and wild weird
tales prevailing. He evidently chose his books
in accordance with his own tastes, not because
such and such were classical, or established favorites.
</p>

<p>
<q>Ah!</q> he said, <q>we farmers ought not to have
much time for reading; yet somehow one can't
help it.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>What a pretty room!</q> said Miss Matey,
<hi rend='italic'>sotto voce</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<q>What a pleasant place!</q> said I, aloud, almost
simultaneously.
</p>

<p>
<q>Nay! if you like it,</q> replied he; <q>but can
you sit on these great black leather three-cornered
chairs? I like it better than the best parlor;
but I thought ladies would take that for the
smarter place.</q>
</p>

<p>
It was the smarter place; but, like most smart
things, not at all pretty, or pleasant, or home-like;
so, while we were at dinner, the servant-girl
dusted and scrubbed the counting-house
chairs, and we sate there all the rest of the day.
</p>

<p>
We had pudding before meat; and I thought
Mr. Holbrook was going to make some apology
for his old-fashioned ways, for he began,
</p>

<p>
<q>I don't know whether you like newfangled
ways.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh! not at all!</q> said Miss Matey.
</p>

<p>
<q>No more do I,</q> said he. <q>My housekeeper
<emph>will</emph> have things in her new fashion; or else I
tell her, that when I was a young man, we used
to keep strictly to my father's rule, <q>No broth,
no ball; no ball, no beef;</q> and always began
dinner with broth. Then we had suet puddings,
boiled in the broth with the beef; and then the
meat itself. If we did not sup our broth, we had
no ball, which we liked a deal better; and the
beef came last of all, and only those had it who
had done justice to the broth and the ball. Now
folks begin with sweet things, and turn their
dinners topsy-turvy.</q>
</p>

<p>
When the ducks and green pease came, we
looked at each other in dismay; we had only
two-pronged, black-handled forks. It is true,
the steel was as bright as silver; but, what were
we to do? Miss Matey picked up her peas, one
by one, on the point of the prongs, much as
Amin ate her grains of rice after her previous
feast with the Ghoul. Miss Pole sighed over
<pb n='462'/><anchor id='Pg462'/>
her delicate young peas as she left them on one
side of her plate untasted; for they <emph>would</emph> drop
between the prongs. I looked at my host: the
peas were going wholesale into his capacious
mouth, shoveled up by his large round-ended
knife. I saw, I imitated, I survived! My
friends, in spite of my precedent, could not muster
up courage enough to do an ungenteel thing;
and, if Mr. Holbrook had not been so heartily
hungry, he would, probably, have seen that the
good pease went away almost untouched.
</p>

<p>
After dinner, a clay-pipe was brought in, and
a spittoon; and, asking us to retire to another
room, where he would soon join us, if we disliked
tobacco-smoke, he presented his pipe to
Miss Matey, and requested her to fill the bowl.
This was a compliment to a lady in his youth;
but it was rather inappropriate to propose it as
an honor to Miss Matey, who had been trained
by her sister to hold smoking of every kind in
utter abhorrence. But if it was a shock to her
refinement, it was also a gratification to her feelings
to be thus selected; so she daintily stuffed
the strong tobacco into the pipe; and then we
withdrew.
</p>

<p>
<q>It is very pleasant dining with a bachelor,</q>
said Miss Matey, softly, as we settled ourselves
in the counting-house. <q>I only hope it is not
improper; so many pleasant things are!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>What a number of books he has!</q> said Miss
Pole, looking round the room. <q>And how dusty
they are!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I think it must be like one of the great Dr.
Johnson's rooms,</q> said Miss Matey. <q>What a
superior man your cousin must be!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes!</q> said Miss Pole; <q>he is a great reader;
but I am afraid he has got into very uncouth
habits with living alone.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh! uncouth is too hard a word. I should
call him eccentric; very clever people always
are!</q> replied Miss Matey.
</p>

<p>
When Mr. Holbrook returned, he proposed a
walk in the fields; but the two elder ladies were
afraid of damp and dirt; and had only very unbecoming
calashes to put over their caps; so
they declined; and I was again his companion
in a turn which he said he was obliged to take,
to see after his niece. He strode along, either
wholly forgetting my existence, or soothed into
silence by his pipe&mdash;and yet it was not silence
exactly. He walked before me, with a stooping
gait, his hands clasped behind him; and, as some
tree, or cloud, or glimpse of distant upland pastures
struck him, he quoted poetry to himself;
saying it out loud in a grand, sonorous voice,
with just the emphasis that true feeling and appreciation
give. We came upon an old cedar-tree,
which stood at one end of the house;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>More black than ash-buds in the front of March,</q></l>
<l><q rend='post'>A cedar spread his dark-green layers of shade.</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

<p>
<q>Capital term&mdash;<q>layers!</q> Wonderful man!</q>
I did not know whether he was speaking to me
or not; but I put in an assenting <q>wonderful,</q>
although I knew nothing about it; just because
I was tired of being forgotten, and of being consequently
silent.
</p>

<p>
He turned sharp round. <q>Ay! you may say
<q>wonderful.</q> Why, when I saw the review of
his poems in <q>Blackwood,</q> I set off within an
hour, and walked seven miles to Misselton (for
the horses were not in the way), and ordered
them. Now, what color are ash-buds in March?</q>
</p>

<p>
Is the man going mad? thought I. He is
very like Don Quixote.
</p>

<p>
<q>What color are they, I say?</q> repeated he,
vehemently.
</p>

<p>
<q>I am sure I don't know, sir,</q> said I, with
the meekness of ignorance.
</p>

<p>
<q>I knew you didn't. No more did I&mdash;an old
fool that I am! till this young man comes and
tells me. <q>Black as ash-buds in March.</q> And
I've lived all my life in the country; more shame
for me not to know. Black; they are jet-black,
madam.</q> And he went off again, swinging
along to the music of some rhyme he had got
hold of.
</p>

<p>
When he came home nothing would serve him
but that he must read us the poems he had been
speaking of; and Miss Pole encouraged him in
his proposal, I thought, because she wished me
to hear his beautiful reading, of which she had
boasted; but she afterward said it was because
she had got to a difficult part of her crotchet,
and wanted to count her stitches without having
to talk. Whatever he had proposed would have
been right to Miss Matey; although she did fall
sound asleep within five minutes after he began
a long poem called <q>Locksley Hall,</q> and had a
comfortable nap, unobserved, till he ended; when
the cessation of his voice wakened her up, and
she said, feeling that something was expected,
and that Miss Pole was counting:
</p>

<p>
<q>What a pretty book!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Pretty! madam! it's beautiful! Pretty, indeed!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, yes! I meant beautiful!</q> said she, fluttered
at his disapproval of her word. <q>It is so
like that beautiful poem of Dr. Johnson's my sister
used to read&mdash;I forget the name of it; what
was it, my dear?</q> turning to me.
</p>

<p>
<q>Which do you mean, ma'am? What was it
about?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I don't remember what it was about, and
I've quite forgotten what the name of it was;
but it was written by Dr. Johnson, and was very
beautiful, and very like what Mr. Holbrook has
just been reading.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I don't remember it,</q> said he, reflectively,
<q>but I don't know Dr. Johnson's poems well.
I must read them.</q>
</p>

<p>
As we were getting into the fly to return, I
heard Mr. Holbrook say he should call on the
ladies soon, and inquire how they got home; and
this evidently pleased and fluttered Miss Matey
at the time he said it; but after we had lost
sight of the old house among the trees, her sentiments
toward the master of it were gradually
absorbed into a distressing wonder as to whether
Martha had broken her word, and seized on the
opportunity of her mistress's absence to have a
<q>follower.</q> Martha looked good, and steady,
and composed enough, as she came to help us
<pb n='463'/><anchor id='Pg463'/>
out; she was always careful of Miss Matey, and
to-night she made use of this unlucky speech:
</p>

<p>
<q>Eh! dear ma'am, to think of your going out
on an evening in such a thin shawl! It is no
better than muslin. At your age, ma'am, you
should be careful.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>My age!</q> said Miss Matey, almost speaking
crossly, for her; for she was usually gentle. <q>My
age! Why, how old do you think I am, that
you talk about my age?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, ma'am! I should say you were not far
short of sixty; but folks' looks is often against
them&mdash;and I'm sure I meant no harm.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Martha, I'm not yet fifty-two!</q> said Miss
Matey, with grave emphasis; for probably the
remembrance of her youth had come very vividly
before her this day, and she was annoyed at finding
that golden time so far away in the past.
</p>

<p>
But she never spoke of any former and more
intimate acquaintance with Mr. Holbrook. She
had probably met with so little sympathy in her
early love, that she had shut it up close in her
heart; and it was only by a sort of watching,
which I could hardly avoid, since Miss Pole's
confidence, that I saw how faithful her poor heart
had been in its sorrow and its silence.
</p>

<p>
She gave me some good reason for wearing
her best cap every day, and sate near the window,
in spite of her rheumatism, in order to see,
without being seen, down into the street.
</p>

<p>
He came. He put his open palms upon his
knees, which were far apart, as he sate with his
head bent down, whistling, after we had replied
to his inquiries about our safe return. Suddenly,
he jumped up.
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, madam! have you any commands for
Paris? I'm going there in a week or two.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>To Paris!</q> we both exclaimed.
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes, ma'am! I've never been there, and always
had a wish to go; and I think if I don't go
soon, I mayn't go at all; so as soon as the hay
is got in I shall go, before harvest-time.</q>
</p>

<p>
We were so much astonished, that we had no
commissions.
</p>

<p>
Just as he was going out of the room, he
turned back, with his favorite exclamation:
</p>

<p>
<q>God bless my soul, madam! but I nearly forgot
half my errand. Here are the poems for you,
you admired so much the other evening at my
house.</q> He tugged away at a parcel in his coat-pocket.
<q>Good-by, Miss,</q> said he; <q>good-by,
Matey! take care of yourself.</q> And he was
gone. But he had given her a book, and he had
called her Matey, just as he used to do thirty
years ago.
</p>

<p>
<q>I wish he would not go to Paris,</q> said Miss
Matilda, anxiously. <q>I don't believe frogs will
agree with him; he used to have to be very careful
what he ate, which was curious in so strong-looking
a young man.</q>
</p>

<p>
Soon after this I took my leave, giving many
an injunction to Martha to look after her mistress,
and to let me know if she thought that
Miss Matilda was not so well; in which case I
would volunteer a visit to my old friend, without
noticing Martha's intelligence to her.
</p>

<p>
Accordingly I received a line or two from
Martha every now and then; and, about November,
I had a note to say her mistress was <q>very low,
and sadly off her food;</q> and the account
made me so uneasy, that, although Martha did
not decidedly summon me, I packed up my things
and went.
</p>

<p>
I received a warm welcome, in spite of the
little flurry produced by my impromptu visit, for
I had only been able to give a day's notice. Miss
Matilda looked miserably ill; and I prepared to
comfort and cosset her.
</p>

<p>
I went down to have a private talk with Martha.
</p>

<p>
<q>How long has your mistress been so poorly?</q>
I asked, as I stood by the kitchen fire.
</p>

<p>
<q>Well! I think it's better than a fortnight; it
is, I know: it was one Tuesday after Miss Pole
had been here that she went into this moping way.
I thought she was tired, and it would go off with
a night's rest; but, no! she has gone on and on
ever since, till I thought it my duty to write to
you, ma'am.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You did quite right, Martha. It is a comfort
to think she has so faithful a servant about
her. And I hope you find your place comfortable?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, ma'am, missus is very kind, and there's
plenty to eat and drink, and no more work but
what I can do easily&mdash;but&mdash;</q> Martha hesitated.
</p>

<p>
<q>But what, Martha?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Why, it seems so hard of missus not to let
me have any followers; there's such lots of young
fellows in the town; and many a one has as
much as offered to keep company with me; and
I may never be in such a likely place again, and
it's like wasting an opportunity. Many a girl as
I know would have 'em unbeknownst to missus;
but I've given my word, and I'll stick to it; or
else this is just the house for missus never to be
the wiser if they did come: and it's such a capable
kitchen&mdash;there's such good dark corners in
it&mdash;I'd be bound to hide any one. I counted up
last Sunday night&mdash;for I'll not deny I was crying
because I had to shut the door in Jem Hearn's
face; and he's a steady young man, fit for any
girl; only I had given missus my word.</q> Martha
was all but crying again; and I had little
comfort to give her, for I knew, from old experience,
of the horror with which both the Miss
Jenkynses looked upon <q>followers;</q> and in Miss
Matey's present nervous state this dread was not
likely to be lessened.
</p>

<p>
I went to see Miss Pole the next day, and took
her completely by surprise; for she had not been
to see Miss Matilda for two days.
</p>

<p>
<q>And now I must go back with you, my dear,
for I promised to let her know how Thomas Holbrook
went on; and I'm sorry to say his housekeeper
has sent me word to-day that he hasn't
long to live. Poor Thomas! That journey to
Paris was quite too much for him. His housekeeper
says he has hardly ever been round his
fields since; but just sits with his hands on his
knees in the counting-house, not reading or any
thing, but only saying, what a wonderful city
<pb n='464'/><anchor id='Pg464'/>
Paris was! Paris has much to answer for, if
it's killed my cousin Thomas, for a better man
never lived.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Does Miss Matilda know of his illness?</q>
asked I; a new light as to the cause of her indisposition
dawning upon me.
</p>

<p>
<q>Dear! to be sure, yes! Has she not told
you? I let her know a fortnight ago, or more,
when first I heard of it. How odd, she shouldn't
have told you!</q>
</p>

<p>
Not at all, I thought; but I did not say any
thing. I felt almost guilty of having spied too
curiously into that tender heart, and I was not
going to speak of its secrets&mdash;hidden, Miss Matey
believed, from all the world. I ushered Miss
Pole into Miss Matilda's little drawing-room;
and then left them alone. But I was not surprised
when Martha came to my bedroom door,
to ask me to go down to dinner alone, for that
missus had one of her bad headaches. She came
into the drawing-room at tea-time; but it was
evidently an effort to her; and, as if to make up
for some reproachful feeling against her late sister,
Miss Jenkyns, which had been troubling her
all the afternoon, and for which she now felt penitent,
she kept telling me how good and how clever
Deborah was in her youth; how she used to
settle what gowns they were to wear at all the
parties (faint, ghostly ideas of dim parties far
away in the distance, when Miss Matey and Miss
Pole were young!) and how Deborah and her
mother had started the benefit society for the
poor, and taught girls cooking and plain sewing;
and how Deborah had once danced with a lord;
and how she used to visit at Sir Peter Arley's,
and try to remodel the quiet rectory establishment
on the plans of Arley Hall, where they kept thirty
servants; and how she had nursed Miss Matey
through a long, long illness, of which I had never
heard before, but which I now dated in my own
mind as following the dismissal of the suit of Mr.
Holbrook. So we talked softly and quietly of old
times, through the long November evening.
</p>

<p>
The next day Miss Pole brought us word that
Mr. Holbrook was dead. Miss Matey heard the
news in silence; in fact, from the account on the
previous day, it was only what we had to expect.
Miss Pole kept calling upon us for some expression
of regret, by asking if it was not sad that
he was gone: and saying,
</p>

<p>
<q>To think of that pleasant day last June, when
he seemed so well! And he might have lived
this dozen years if he had not gone to that wicked
Paris, where they are always having revolutions.</q>
</p>

<p>
She paused for some demonstration on our
part. I saw Miss Matey could not speak, she
was trembling so nervously; so I said what I
really felt: and after a call of some duration&mdash;all
the time of which I have no doubt Miss Pole
thought Miss Matey received the news very calmly&mdash;our
visitor took her leave. But the effort at
self-control Miss Matey had made to conceal her
feelings&mdash;a concealment she practiced even with
me, for she has never alluded to Mr. Holbrook
again, although the book he gave her lies with
her Bible on the little table by her bedside; she
did not think I heard her when she asked the
little milliner of Cranford to make her caps something
like the Honorable Mrs. Jamieson's, or that
I noticed the reply,
</p>

<p>
<q>But she wears widows' caps, ma'am?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh! I only meant something in that style;
not widows', of course, but rather like Mrs. Jamieson's.</q>
</p>

<p>
This effort at concealment was the beginning
of the tremulous motion of head and hands which
I have seen ever since in Miss Matey.
</p>

<p>
The evening of the day on which we heard of
Mr. Holbrook's death, Miss Matilda was very silent
and thoughtful; after prayers she called
Martha back, and then she stood uncertain what
to say.
</p>

<p>
<q>Martha!</q> she said at last; <q>you are young,</q>
and then she made so long a pause that Martha,
to remind her of her half-finished sentence, dropped
a courtesy, and said:
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes, please, ma'am; two-and-twenty last
third of October, please, ma'am.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And perhaps, Martha, you may some time
meet with a young man you like, and who likes
you. I did say you were not to have followers;
but if you meet with such a young man, and tell
me, and I find he is respectable, I have no objection
to his coming to see you once a week. God
forbid!</q> said she, in a low voice, <q>that I should
grieve any young hearts.</q> She spoke as if she
were providing for some distant contingency, and
was rather startled when Martha made her ready,
eager answer:
</p>

<p>
<q>Please, ma'am, there's Jim Hearn, and he's
a joiner, making three-and-sixpence a day, and
six foot one in his stocking-feet, please ma'am;
and if you'll ask about him to-morrow morning,
every one will give him a character for steadiness;
and he'll be glad enough to come to-morrow night,
I'll be bound.</q>
</p>

<p>
Though Miss Matey was startled, she submitted
to Fate and Love.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Anecdotes Of Monkeys.</head>

<p>
During a short stay on the Essequibo, a little
monkey of the Jackowai Ris tribe, in return
for some slight attention I had shown him,
permitted me so far to gain his favor and confidence,
that he was seldom away from my person;
indeed, he treated me like one mentioned
by a distinguished traveler, which every morning
seized on a pig belonging to a mission on the
Orinoco, and rode on its back during the whole
day, while it wandered about the savannahs in
search of food. Nothing pleased him better than
to perch on my shoulder, when he would encircle
my neck with his long hairy tail, and accompany
me in all my rambles. His tail formed a no very
agreeable neckcloth, with the thermometer above
one hundred degrees; but he seemed so disappointed
when I refused to carry him, that it was
impossible to leave him behind. In appearance
he was particularly engaging&mdash;squirrel-like in
form&mdash;with a light brown coat slightly tinged
with yellow, and arms and legs of a reddish cast&mdash;pleasingly
<pb n='465'/><anchor id='Pg465'/>
contrasting with a pale face, and
small black muzzle; the expressive and merry
twinkle of his sparkling black eye betokened fun,
roguery, and intelligence. The Jackowai Ris
are a fierce race, and approach the carnivora in
their habits and dispositions. One reason of our
intimacy was the sameness of our pursuits&mdash;both
being entomologists; but he was a far more indefatigable
insect-hunter than myself. He would
sit motionless for hours among the branches of a
flowering shrub or tree, the resort of bees and
butterflies, and suddenly seize them when they
little expected danger. Timid in the presence
of strangers, he would usually fly to the branches
of a neighboring tree at their approach, uttering
a plaintive cry, more resembling a bird than an
animal. He was apt to be troublesome, even to
me, unless I found him some amusement; this,
fortunately, was not difficult; for his whole attention
was soon engrossed by a flower, or by a
leaf from my note-book, which he would industriously
pull to pieces, and throw on the surface
of the water, earnestly watching the fragments
with his quick black eye, as they glided away.
</p>

<p>
At other times, when sitting on my shoulder,
he was an incessant plague, twitching the hairs
from my head by twos and threes, filling my ears
with fragments of plants and other rubbish, and
taking a malicious pleasure in holding on by
those members when the boat lurched, and he
was in danger of falling. I think it was one of
the same family that Humboldt found capable of
recognizing, as resemblances of their originals,
even uncolored zoological drawings; and would
stretch out its hand to endeavor to capture the
bees and grasshoppers. I was unable to test the
sagacity of my little comrade, as the only accessible
work with engravings was a copy of Schomburgk's
<q>Fishes of Guiana;</q> and when I showed
him the plates he manifested no signs of a knowledge
of any of his finny compatriots; never, perhaps,
having seen them. He was dreadfully
afraid of getting himself wet, particularly his
hands and feet; in this respect showing a very
different disposition to a large long-haired black
monkey, belonging to a family settled a short distance
from our residence.
</p>

<p>
This animal&mdash;an object of the greatest terror
to the little Jackowinki, from his having caught
him one day and ducked him in the river&mdash;was
one of the most tractable and docile I ever remember
having met. He was in the habit of accompanying
his master in all his fishing and
shooting expeditions, taking his allotted seat in
the canoe, and plying his small paddle for hours
together with the utmost gravity and composure;
all the while keeping excellent time, and being
never <q>out of stroke.</q> Like his companions, he
would now and then dip the handle of his paddle
in the water, to destroy the squeaking grate of
the dry surface, and again would lean over the
side and wash his hands. His domestic habits
were perfectly human. The first thing every
morning he cleansed his teeth, by taking a
mouthful of water, and using his finger as a
tooth-brush; like the other members of the family,
whom he also imitated in their daily bath in
the river. Perhaps one at least of these peculiarities
was not entirely imitative, as a credible
authority (Captain Stedman, in his <q>Narrative
of an Expedition to Surinam</q>) assures us that
he once saw a monkey at the water's edge, rinsing
his mouth, and appearing to clean his teeth
with his fingers.
</p>

<p>
As for my little friend, I intended to bring him
home; but the day before my departure he suddenly
decamped. We were taking our usual trip
up the creek, and I was just thinking of returning,
when, on rounding a sharp bend in the tortuous
channel, I perceived two Jackowinkis sitting
on a branch about twenty yards distant, as
yet unaware of our vicinity, and from their chattering
and grimaces seemingly engaged in some
matrimonial squabble. Anxious to obtain a specimen
for stuffing, I fired at one, which proved to
be the male, who dropped to the ground.
</p>

<p>
When he saw his brother fall, he seemed
instantly to understand that I was a murderer.
He took immediate revenge. He sprang to
my shoulder, tore a handful of hair from my
head, and swiftly clambered away among the
overhanging branches. When I recovered from
surprise at this unexpected attack, he had paused
in his flight; and, with his face turned toward
me, was grinning, showing his sharp little teeth,
and throwing down glances of fierceness and hate.
In another instant he was pursuing the female,
whose plaintive twitterings were distinctly audible,
as she scampered away among the trees. In
the course of time, he no doubt managed to console
the widow; and, free from all shackles and
restraints, is probably, at this moment, quietly
enjoying a married life in his native woods.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Mountain Torrent.</head>

<div>
<head>I.</head>

<p>
My family, by the paternal side, was originally
of Berne, in Switzerland, whence a branch
of it removed to the Milanese, to improve its fortunes.
The name of Reding&mdash;well-known in the
Cantons&mdash;was sustained with credit by my father.
He inherited a thriving mill and farm,
about a quarter of a league from the straggling
village and venerable Castle of St. Michael, within
sight of the Tyrolese Alps. Traveling to Zurich,
where he had distant connections, he returned
with a companion who weaned him from
the desire of wandering any more.
</p>

<p>
The Castle of St. Michael, with the estate on
which our little property was situated, belonged
to an Austrian noble, who managed it by deputy,
and lived in courtly splendor at Vienna. Count
Mansfeldt was equitably represented by his steward,
Engel; and under him, our house enjoyed
prosperity from the days of my grandsire.
</p>

<p>
I had but one sister; my mother was the sole
superintendent of her education; she thought
the feminine mind, so susceptible of impressions,
should never be spontaneously consigned to foreign
culture. Katherine was worthy of her preceptress.
It is not for me to dilate upon her excellence&mdash;a
portrait by my hand might be deemed
<pb n='466'/><anchor id='Pg466'/>
the glowing creation of a brother's fondness. It
is enough to mention the strength of our attachment.
I was two years her senior; and when
her age qualified her for sharing in childish pastimes,
she was the welcome partner of all my
amusements. I showered into her lap the first
flowers of spring, and brought her the wild-strawberry
from heights where few would venture. In
her friendship, I reposed the confidence of ripening
boyhood&mdash;frequently were the overflowings
of a sanguine temperament repressed by her mildness.
With innocent wiles she endeavored to
vail my errors from parental eyes; when I did
incur displeasure, her accustomed gayety was
gone, and the voice that recalled her truant smile,
was ever that which pardoned the offender.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>II.</head>

<p>
I was entering my twentieth year, when our
situation underwent an important change. Our
landlord was gathered to his ancestors, having
bequeathed his Lombardy estate to his second
son, Count Rainer. Engel, the good old steward,
was soon after dismissed from office, and
retired, with the fruits of faithful service, to his
native town in Carniola.
</p>

<p>
Count Rainer was a captain in the imperial
army. He was with his regiment at Pavia when
informed of his father's death. Devolving his
authority on an emancipated sergeant of hussars,
the purveyor of his libertine pleasures, he dispatched
him to St. Michael to wring money from
the tenantry, and prepare for his reception.
</p>

<p>
Ludolf was a swaggering bravo, emulous, at
middle age, of the vices of profligate youth. On
his arrival, he circulated a pompous intimation
that he came vested with full powers to treat
with the vassals of the count, and renew their
engagements.
</p>

<p>
My sister had gone to the village to make purchases,
and I left the mill at vesper chime with
the intention of meeting her. The path was abrupt,
and little frequented. I was cherishing discontent
at the husbandman's unvaried existence,
when I was roused by the distant accents of a
female in distress. They were clearly distinguishable,
and I rushed to the quarter whence
they proceeded. In a corner of an open spot,
backed by a deep ditch, fenced with luxuriant
underwood, Katherine was keeping a man, unknown
to me, at bay: he was above the middle
size, and in his beard and costume affected the
fashion of the military. He faced me as I approached,
and my sister, with disordered dress
and agitated frame, flew to my side. Defenseless
as I was, my first impulse was to chastise
the ruffian, though he wore a sabre; but consideration
for the terrified girl, who clung to me imploringly,
induced me to forego my purpose. We
had not receded many paces, when Katherine
relinquished her hold, and uttered a warning
cry: the hand of violence was already at my
throat; and a harsh voice, unsteady from rage
or intemperance, demanded why a contemptible
slave dared to interfere with the representative
of Count Rainer.
</p>

<p>
Unequal to my opponent in bulk and inert
force, I was far above him in activity and the
resources of a vigorous constitution. A sudden
jerk freed me from his hold, and a well-applied
push sent him reeling to the verge of the ditch.
He drew his weapon with a rapidity on which I
had not calculated; Katherine's coolness saved
my life: she arrested his arm in its sweep. Ere
he could disengage himself, I collected all my
energy for one buffet, and laid him supine in the
reservoir of mud.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>III.</head>

<p>
Count Rainer was greeted at St. Michael with
the show of rustic rejoicing usual on the appearance
of a new master. He was accompanied by
a train of riotous associates. The roar of Bacchanalian
merriment shook the dusky halls of his
patrimonial fabric, which, in the blaze of unwonted
festivity, seemed to have renewed its youth.
Naught, from the evening of the rencounter, had
we heard or seen of Ludolf. His rudeness might
have originated in the coarse jocularity of a soldier,
stimulated by too fervid an application to
the bottle. Prudence required that I should abstain
from needlessly irritating a man whose enmity
might mar my father's arrangements with
his lord: I therefore avoided the chance of collision.
</p>

<p>
I was strolling about the fields with my gun
on my shoulder, when a pet pigeon of Katherine's
whirred past me, pursued by a hawk. I fired at
the bird of prey, which dropped in an adjoining
meadow. Springing across the intervening
hedge, I found myself in the presence of a group
of mounted sportsmen and their attendants. One
of the horsemen was examining the dead hawk;
his attention was directed toward me by a retainer,
in whose brawny proportions, husky voice,
and ferocious mustaches, I recognized my adversary,
Ludolf.
</p>

<p>
My gun was demanded, in the name of Count
Rainer: I refused to surrender it. The party
formed a circle around, pinioned me, and wrested
it from me, ere I could attempt resistance. <q>Mr.
Steward,</q> said the count, <q>you may now acquaint
your friend with the consequences of destroying
a nobleman's falcon.</q>
</p>

<p>
The ready villain and his servile followers
dragged me to the earth; they profaned my person
by stripes. When they left me in my abasement,
the air felt pestilent with their brutal laughter.
</p>

<p>
I lay with my face to the greensward long
after their departure. My brain was eddying in
a hell-whirl. I could have welcomed the return
of chaos, that the circumstance of my shame
might be obliterated in the clash of contending
elements. Had the sun been blotted from the
heavens, and the summer earth turned to blackness
and desolation, I should have thought them
fit and natural occurrences. I raised my burning
brow; but the orb of day was riding high in his
glory, and the meadow-grass and wild flowers
were fresh and fragrant as if they had not witnessed
the act of degradation. I discovered that
a stranger had been regarding me with a vigilant
eye. I confronted him, and darted at him a devouring
<pb n='467'/><anchor id='Pg467'/>
glance; his firm, contemplative look remained
unaltered. Placing a hand on my shoulder,
he said, <q>Albert Reding, consider me your friend.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I know you not,</q> I answered, <q>nor care to
know you.</q> He smiled benevolently:
</p>

<p>
<q>Young man, I am no Austrian. I shall be
with you to-morrow.</q>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>IV.</head>

<p>
The stranger kept his word: on the ensuing
day he came to our dwelling. Making, he said,
a tour through the north of Italy, the picturesque
scenery tempted him to prolong his sojourn at
St. Michael. In his excursions, he had chanced
to hold random converse with my father, whom
he professed to value as the worthy descendant
of an independent and intelligent people.
</p>

<p>
I had forborne to grieve my family by the story
of my disgrace, nor had it yet been detailed to
them by the officious communicativeness of pretended
friends. Our visitor made no allusion to
it, but expatiated very agreeably on topics of general
interest. He described the passes of the
Alps with the accuracy of a mountaineer, and
displayed an intimacy with the localities of the
cantons that filled my parents with pleasure and
surprise. In pursuit of knowledge he had traversed
the most remarkable sections of the globe;
and his observations, affluent in instruction, proved
that his wanderings had been of a different
order from the capricious migrations of sight-seeking
wealth.
</p>

<p>
The warmth with which I seconded some of
his sentiments appeared to please him. He complimented
my father on my education; adding,
that the judgment with which I developed its
resources designated me for a wider sphere of
action than belonged to a tiller of the soil of
Lombardy. I had been vain enough to entertain
the same opinion; and its confirmation by a competent
authority was balm to my spirit. Gladly
I acceded to his request, of guiding him to the
Baron's Font, a romantic cascade, where, to use
his own language, he sighed to offer allegiance
to Nature.
</p>

<p>
My companion noted the peculiarities of the
route, and committed to writing the information
I furnished respecting the district. We rested
on the summit of a steep, skirted by the foaming
stream of the cascade, beyond which rose wooded
grounds in bold acclivity, mellowing, with their
dusky greenness, the gloomy grandeur of a mouldering
tower.
</p>

<p>
The stranger abruptly adverted to the hateful
humiliation of the preceding day. He descanted
on the contumely I had suffered, with a vehement
bitterness that chafed my young blood to
flame. I denounced endless hostility against the
count and his minions. He calmly commented
on the futility of the threat. In the frenzy of
exasperation, I insinuated the possibility of resorting
to the darkest means of accomplishing
revenge. He replied, that in cooler moments I
would spurn the idea of Italian vengeance. Requiring
a pledge of secrecy, he proceeded to point
out an honorable mode of lowering the crest of
the oppressor.
</p>

<p>
<q>My name,</q> he said, <q>is Philippon&mdash;my profession,
a military engineer, in the service of the
French Republic. The armies of Liberty only
await the capture of Toulon to sever the chains
of Italy. I am terminating a secret journey of
observation through Piedmont and the Milanese.
Come with me to Paris, and join the standard of
Freedom. In France, no parchment barrier excludes
untitled youth from fame and fortune;
draw a blade in her cause, and relieve the place
of your nativity from the thralldom of its petty
tyrant. These brutal and stolid Austrians must
be driven to their land of hereditary bondage&mdash;justice
demands it. The time has gone by for
insulted and injured Humanity to shed tears in
secret. Five dreary years I pined in the dismal
solitudes of the Bastile&mdash;I saw it fall, amid the
curses of my countrymen; and never shall the
spirit of a liberated nation taste repose, until
every stronghold of remorseless power is patent
to the winds of heaven as yon grim old fortress,
where the Count Rainers of the past outraged
with impunity the natural equality of man!</q>
</p>

<p>
The majesty of generous indignation irradiated
his brow: the eloquent thunders of the Roman
forum seemed to roll around me. I agreed to
attend him to the capital of the young Republic.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>V.</head>

<p>
Bent on entering the field of martial adventure,
I anticipated much difficulty in obtaining the
concurrence of my father. A lover of tranquillity,
he had sickened at the sanguinary measures
that had crimsoned the cradle of the French
Revolution. Yielding also to age and infirmity,
he had been accustomed to the prospect of resigning
to me the chief management of our
affairs. The narrative of my shame, however,
which led him to tremble for the consequences,
determined him against opposing my departure.
Of my military project, and the pursuits of my
patron, I made no disclosure&mdash;I barely stated the
fact, that he had promised to provide for me at
Paris, and proposed, in the mean time, giving
me employment as an amanuensis.
</p>

<p>
Sorrow and joy are twin daughters of affection.
Notwithstanding the excitement of curiosity and
ambition, reluctantly and despondingly I crossed
our humble threshold. I went away at night,
and this added to the melancholy character of
the separation. My mother was unwell, and at
her bedside I received her blessing. The features
of my gentle-natured sister gave dim and pallid
testimony to the fullness of her affliction. When
I had parted with my parents, she escorted me
to the extremity of the orchard. <q>Oh, Albert!</q>
were the only words she had power to utter; and
her face looked so mournful&mdash;so heart-appealing,
in the moonlight&mdash;that to desert her smote me as
a sin. One embrace, and I bounded off like a
chamois&mdash;then paused, till weeping relieved my
soul&mdash;Katherine! Katherine!
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>VI.</head>

<p>
I remained about a year at Paris in the house
of my patron. Toulon had fallen, and the army
of Italy had commenced operations by a successful
movement on the Sardinian frontier. Profiting
<pb n='468'/><anchor id='Pg468'/>
by the opportunity I possessed of studying
the theory of the military art, I was rewarded
with a commission in a regiment of the line&mdash;one
of those destined for the invasion of the Milanese.
I received, with alacrity, the order to proceed to
Nice. I was shocked and disgusted by the dreary
spectacle of civil broil, and I thirsted for distinction.
The memory of wrong also rankled in my
bosom, and in my dreams I planted the revolutionary
banner on the battlements of St. Michael,
and heard myself hailed in the halls of the insolent
Austrian with the acclamations due to a hero.
</p>

<p>
I joined my regiment; but a government
weakened by vacillations in its form, and dissensions
in the capital, permitted the army, with
which my hopes were associated, to languish ill-appointed
and inactive. Instead of running a
career of glory, it was forced to contend with the
most depressing privations. In my despondency,
a long-delayed letter arrived from my father. Its
contents were almost limited to the earnest request,
that I would immediately hasten home.
</p>

<p>
Its emphatic urgency, unaccompanied by explanation,
assured me that all went not well. I
would fain have obeyed the summons, but it was
impracticable. The Directory, established in
authority, ordered the army of Italy to the field.
General Bonaparte, an officer in his twenty-sixth
year, marshaled the way to the Alps.
</p>

<p>
Napoleon's campaigns in 1796 are familiar to
all Europe. It was my fortune to be present in
the most remarkable engagements, and to escape
without a wound. When Wurmser, after repeated
defeats, succeeded in recruiting his forces
in the Tyrol, a strong body of our troops, headed
by the commander-in-chief, advanced against a
division of 20,000 Austrians stationed at Roveredo.
Our line of march lay through the district
of my birth. A few hours before we were in
motion I was summoned to the quarters of the
general. It was the well-known characteristic
of this extraordinary man scrupulously to ascertain
the extent of his resources, even to the
qualifications of an individual soldier.
</p>

<p>
Aware of my knowledge of the country he was
about to penetrate, he wished to make it subservient
to his purpose. He questioned me as to
the correctness of some local information, which
I perceived had been derived from the documents
of Philippon. Satisfied on these points, he sportively
inquired, if I had any dislike to act as his
herald to my old neighbors. I related my obligations
to our German superior, and he promised
me ample powers for discharging them in full.
</p>

<p>
We were evidently unexpected. No artificial
obstacle opposed our progress, and we proceeded
with unexampled celerity. Our advanced posts
were only separated from St. Michael by a few
miles of broken ground, when I was dispatched
with a detachment to surprise it. The troops
halted in a chestnut grove, about half a league
from the mill, while I, grappling a fowling-piece,
assuming a light hunting-cap, and covering my
uniform with an ordinary cloak, went forth to reconnoitre
the place, and to provide for the safety
of my relatives.
</p>

<p>
I skirted round the village and castle, which
I found were occupied by a company of Hungarian
infantry under Count Rainer. Not anticipating
the irruption of an enemy into their
secluded fastness, camp indulgences had relaxed
order. My informer, a poor peasant, seemed
afraid of confiding to a stranger his opinion of
the count and his followers. I asked concerning
my family, but with the name of Reding he was
unacquainted.
</p>

<p>
It was the beginning of September. There
had been a continuance of unusually sultry
weather, and the melting of the mountain snows
had swelled the stream at St. Michael to an
impetuous torrent. Twilight was approaching
when I reached a sheltered position opposite the
castle. The waters dashed furiously against the
base of the building, and the crazy supports of
the antiquated bridge quivered like a harpstring.
</p>

<p>
I resolved on a nocturnal attack, and was
about to seek a passing interview with the dear
domestic circle, when, looking toward the castle,
I saw what stayed my step. A female ran wildly
to the stream, pursued by some menials, in the
rear of whom, on horseback, came the count
their master. The fugitive cleared the bridge
just as her pursuers gained it. At that moment
the centre of the infirm structure gave way to
the torrent. Concealed among the trees, I perceived
the female on bended knees, distractedly
blessing God for her deliverance; and I knew
that it was Katherine, my only&mdash;my beloved
sister!
</p>

<p>
I fired a shot at him who had been foremost
in the chase&mdash;the infamous Ludolf&mdash;as he clambered
up a remnant of the shattered bridge. He
stood unhurt amidst the group that surveyed me,
while I sheltered the dove of my boyhood in my
bosom. In the confusion I exposed my uniform;
the alarm was given, and every instant became
precious. I supported Katherine until out of
sight of the foe. <q>Fly!</q> I cried; <q>fly to our
parents, dear sister! tell them I shall bring glad
tidings in the morning!</q>
</p>

<p>
I counseled in vain. The sense of injury had
unsettled her mind&mdash;she hung helplessly upon
me&mdash;her lips moved, but I could distinguish nothing
of what she spoke, save the repetition of
the words, <q>Home! I have no home!</q>&mdash;Oh,
God! she was sadly altered!
</p>

<p>
A bugle echoed among the cliffs. I bore her
to a cavern, the discovery of my youth, and
wrapped her in my cloak. Hurrying, by familiar
paths, with a speed I had never before exerted,
I rejoined my associates.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>VII.</head>

<p>
An intricate and circuitous track brought us
at midnight to the isolated church of St. Michael,
commanding the village and the narrow road to
the castle. We crouched in the church-yard,
until every sound ceased, and the lights that had
blazed in different directions were no longer
visible. Leaving part of my force to intercept
the communication with the village, I led the remainder
to a point of the fortress which I had
scaled in my youthful rambles.
</p>

<pb n='469'/><anchor id='Pg469'/>

<p>
The pacing of the sentinels, and the noisy
vigils of the count and his guests, were clearly
audible as I descended the ivied wall. My party
followed, one by one, and our success would have
been signally complete, but for the accidental
discharge of a musket. This was answered by
a volley from the guard, the din of arms, and the
hasty gathering of a tumultuous body of defenders.
Ordering my men to keep close and follow
me, we pressed forward to a private door that
opened into the body of the pile.
</p>

<p>
This barrier was quickly shattered by a shower
of balls, and in a second the great hall resounded
with the groans of the dying and the shouts of
the triumphant. In that arena of slaughter I
was collected as I am now. Once had Rainer's
bloated visage confronted me in the fray, but the
baleful meteor vanished, and bootless to me was
the issue of the conflict, until blade or bullet did
its work on him and his subordinate.
</p>

<p>
The hall gave indications of a carousal. The
red wine streaming from flagons overturned in
struggle, mingled with the life-drops of the wassailers.
Death derived a more appalling aspect
from the relics of recent revelry. Some intoxicated
wretches had been bayoneted with the
goblets in their hands. One had fallen backward
on the hearth above the burning embers;
he was mortally wounded, and the blood gushed
freely in the flames. I stooped to raise him from
his bed of torture. The streaks of gore did not
disguise the lineaments of Ludolf. The reprobate
had closed his reckoning with mortality.
</p>

<p>
Victory was ours, but discipline was at an end;
I could with difficulty muster sentinels for the
night; the cellars were ransacked, and weariness
and intemperance soon produced their effects.
Sending confidential messengers to attend to my
sister's safety, and convey intelligence to my
father, I prepared to await the dawn of morning.
</p>

<p>
Feverish from anxiety, I felt no inclination to
grant my wearied limbs repose. My brain was
racked with the thought of Katherine, and apprehension
for my parents. I had seen enough to
convince me that Rainer had done his worst.
What confederate demon had enabled him to
escape me?
</p>

<p>
I paced from post to post, execrating the sluggish
march of time. Leaning over an eminence
near the broken bridge, I listened to the turbulent
music of the waters. A subterraneous opening
cut in the rocky soil below communicated with
the vaults of the castle. Hearing the echo of a
foot-fall, I bent cautiously over the outlet. A
lamp glimmered beneath. A muffled figure raised
it aloft to guide its egress, then extinguished it
hastily. The light fell on the face of the count.
</p>

<p>
I grasped his cloak as he emerged, but, slipping
it from his shoulders, he retreated toward a shelving
wood-walk on the margin of the stream. Had
he gained it, the darkness must have saved him.
Both my pistols missed fire. I outstripped in the
race, and bore him back to the very edge of the
ravine. He made a thrust at me with his sword.
I neither paused for a trial of skill, nor attempted
to ward off the weapon; the butt-end of a pistol
found its way to his forehead; not a sound passed
his lips; down he went&mdash;down&mdash;down&mdash;passively
bounding over the jagged declivity, till a heavy
plash told that he was whirling with the torrent.
</p>

<p>
Vengeance was satisfied: I recoiled involuntarily
from the scene of the encounter. Suddenly
arose an explosion, as if a volcano had torn up
the foundation of the castle: I was felled to the
earth ere I could speculate upon the cause.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>VIII.</head>

<p>
My campaigns were over. Rainer had laid a
train, and fired the powder magazine of his captured
hold. The bravest of my men perished;
and I, crushed beneath a fragment of the toppling
towers, lived to curse the art that returned me
mutilated and miserable, to a world in which I
was henceforth to have no portion.
</p>

<p>
I left the hospital a phantom, and set forth on
a pilgrimage, the performance of which was the
only business that remained to me in life. The
tide of battle had ebbed from St. Michael, when
I crawled up its steep&mdash;the church and castle
were blackened ruins&mdash;the habitations of the villagers
roofless and deserted&mdash;the mill a shapeless
mass of timber and stones. Our orchard was
unfolding the buds of spring&mdash;I fancied that the
hoary apple-trees wore the aspect of friends&mdash;the
voice of singing floated on my ear, as I neared
the dwelling of my infancy, and the fountain of
my heart re-opened.
</p>

<p>
Close to the spot where our pretty porch once
stood, a matron, in the garb of extreme penury,
was bending over the trampled remains of a plot
of flowers. Her features were only partially revealed,
but the mountain melody she sang could
not be mistaken&mdash;I fell at my mother's feet!
Shading back the hair from my scarred temples,
she asked me if I had come from her children!
</p>

<p>
Mercy was vouchsafed to her and to me. She
soon slumbered with the clods of the valley. My
father had died, ere my departure from France;
and the story of our injuries from the Austrian
lightened the burden of remorse for the shedding
of blood. I have discovered no trace of Katherine
since I quitted her at the cave.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>A Masked Ball At Vienna.</head>

<p>
It is a bitterly cold night, and the snow which
has been for three days tumbling down upon
the roofs and pavements of Vienna, tumbles down
upon us still. The theatres, which get through
their performances by half-past nine, are closed
already; and there is a lull now in the muffled
streets. I mean to go out as a muffled man, and
use the ticket I have bought for a Masked Ball
at the palace. The sale of tickets for such balls,
which take place now and then during the winter,
raises enormous sums, which are applied to
charitable purposes, so that the luxury of the rich
is made to minister, in this case, also to the comforts
of the poor.
</p>

<p>
Here I stand ankle-deep in snow, and look up
at the palace; all the windows on the first story
are being lighted up, and cold gentlemen converging
toward the door from all parts, are the
members of Strauss's band. And now lights
<pb n='470'/><anchor id='Pg470'/>
have begun to flash about the streets, and masks
are beginning to arrive. Splendid carriages of
the nobility; and positively some of the imperial
family do not disdain to be among the first arrivals!
The beau from the suburbs, in a light
fiacre. Actresses and officers in their broughams.
Sledges from the country, drawn by merry
little horses, frisking through the snow, and jingling
bells over their harness. A chaos of lights,
a coachman, and the long poles of sedan chairs
in the way of a chaos of legs, hats, shoulders,
coach-tops, and every thing else, powdered with
snow that tumbles silently and steadily upon the
scene of riot. A crush of revelers upon the staircase.
Half-past eleven; all the most important
people having now entered&mdash;except myself&mdash;it is
quite time for me to follow to the ball-room.
</p>

<p>
A vast room. Think of the Great Exhibition,
if you want a notion of it; and take off a discount
for exaggeration. Walk to the end of this room,
and a door opens into another ball-room, almost
twice as large. In each of these great halls, there
are raised orchestras, in which the bands are
stationed; and when one band ceases playing,
another is prepared immediately to begin. Galleries,
to which you ascend by flights of stairs at
each end, run round both the rooms; and into
these galleries open innumerable ice and supper-rooms,
passages, and out-of-the-way cells,
wherein you may lose yourself, but not your
company. Masks are to be found sitting in
every corner; wherever a mask is, there is mischief.
</p>

<p>
You see nothing vulgar, no rude costume, no
monstrous noses, no absurd pairs of spectacles,
or woolly wigs. You hear no boisterous shouts
of mirth; beautiful music reigns incessantly supreme
over all other sounds. Only the ladies
are disguised; their faces are hidden behind elegant
little black silk masks, and they vie with
each other in the costliness and beauty of their
costumes and dominoes. The men are all in simple
evening dress; they walk about, defenseless
game, and yield sport in abundance to the dames
and damsels. Most of the ministers are here&mdash;grave,
steady gentlemen, with bald heads or gray
hair. Each of them is surrounded by a swarm
of masks&mdash;princesses, perhaps&mdash;milliners, perhaps&mdash;and
some of them are evidently making
wry mouths at what they are obliged to hear.
This is the time for home truths. The ladies at a
masked ball make good use of their disguise, and
scatter about their wholesome mischief abundantly.
</p>

<p>
A vision in black and gold beckons to me. I
place myself at her disposal. <q>You are an Englishman,</q>
the vision says; <q>I know you.</q>
<q>How, madam?</q> <q>By your awkwardness.</q>
<q>Are Britons awkward?</q> <q>Yes, and wearisome.
Go, you are not amusing. Take care of
your gloves; they are so large that I fear they
will fall off.</q> The vision laughs at me and vanishes.
I have a secret or two which I don't mean
to print. I did think that those mysteries were
locked up in my bosom. If you ever happen to
be at Vienna, with some secrets in your keeping,
and desire to know whether you hold them safe,
go to a Masked Ball. Mocking voices, behind
black silk masks, will very much surprise you
with some samples of the penetration proper to
a sex which seems, in Vienna, to be made of
Blue Beard wives. Twenty ladies honor me
with minute details of the contents of one apartment
in my mind, which I had considered quite
a patent safe, with a fastening like that of the
box in the talisman of Oromanes.
</p>

<p>
The night wears on; at three o'clock the instrumental
music ceases, but the music of the
mischievous and merry tattlers still continues to
be ringing in all ears, and making them to tingle.
Every man is destined to go home abundantly
informed and criticised upon the subject of his
foibles. Until six o'clock, supping, and taking
tea and coffee, will continue, and the relish for
amusement will be as keen as ever. Nobody is
dancing&mdash;nobody has danced; that is no part of
the business. At length, the multitude has dwindled
down to a few stragglers; the remainder of
the cloaks, and coats, and wrappers, are brought
out and scattered, as so many hints to their possessors,
in the middle of the great room. We
immediately dive and scramble for them. In another
hour, the lights are put out; all is over, and
I travel home over the snow.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Ornithologist.</head>

<p>
I was still young, when a sudden reverse of
fortune deprived me of a kind father and
affluence at the same time. A home was offered
for my acceptance by Mrs. Priestly, a widow lady,
whom I had never seen since my infancy, distance
and circumstances having combined to effect
this separation. Mrs. Priestly was not only
my godmother, but she had been the earliest
chosen friend of my own lamented mother, and
now came forward to extend succor to the destitute
orphan. In former years, I remembered to
have heard that she had suffered deep sorrow,
from the loss of her only child, a fine boy, who
was heir to a princely fortune, independent of
his mother's considerable possessions. There
were rumors afloat, at the period of this bereavement,
of a peculiarly distressing nature&mdash;strange,
half-suppressed whispers of some fearful accident
that had rendered the widow childless; but
the memory of these things had passed away,
and Mrs. Priestly's first despair and agony had
settled down to a resigned melancholy. On her
fine countenance premature age was stamped, a
smile seldom visible, while her mourning garb
was never cast aside; she was a lifelong mourner.
</p>

<p>
The outward aspect of Lodimer&mdash;so Mrs.
Priestly's domain was called&mdash;was but little in
accordance with the sad heart of its owner, for
a more cheerful or animated scene I had rarely
witnessed. The villa, surrounded by colonnades,
stood on the side of a gently swelling hill, at the
base of which flowed a broad and sparkling river,
on which numerous boats and picturesque-looking
barges were continually passing and repassing.
Roses and thatch, light French windows
and exotics, trimly-kept pleasure-grounds, slopping
<pb n='471'/><anchor id='Pg471'/>
down to the water's edge, drooping willows
and silver birches were accessories, doubtless,
to produce an effect of combined elegance and
grace, while on the opposite banks richly wooded
hills were studded with white cottages, glancing
in the sunshine; though even during rainy seasons
Lodimer never looked gloomy, an indescribable
air of joyousness and hilarity pervading it.
The calamity which overshadowed Mrs. Priestly's
existence had not occurred at this pleasant home,
but at the distant seat of the widow's brother,
Mr. Lovell, of Lovell Castle, where she and her
son were on a visit at the time; and still Mrs.
Priestly continued to pay an annual visit thither,
never leaving Lodimer save for that purpose, but
leading a life of extreme seclusion. I had the
satisfaction of believing that my society tended
to enhance the comfort of Mrs. Priestly; who,
with the utmost delicacy and kindness, lavished
a thousand nameless attentions&mdash;trifling in themselves,
but keenly felt by the dependent; calling
me her adopted daughter, while her candor demanded
and received my grateful thanks, for I
fully appreciated the excellent motives actuating
Mrs. Priestly's avowal. She wished to prevent
false expectations on my part, and yet to set at
rest all anxiety respecting the future; informing
me, that the bulk of her wealth she designed to
bequeath to her nephew, Mr. Lovell's son, but
that a moderate provision was secured for her
dear orphan god-daughter. But my agitation
gave place to surprise, when Mrs. Priestly continued,
addressing me, <q>You have sense and
discretion beyond your years, Evelin, my love,
and when you came to reside here with me, I
determined first to ascertain if this were the case,
ere I confided my secret to your keeping&mdash;for I
<emph>have</emph> a secret&mdash;which may not be mentioned at
Lovell Castle, when you accompany me thither
shortly. A few miles hence, an individual resides,
to whom I intend shortly to introduce you.
He is a most unfortunate person, and desires the
strictest privacy; but Mr. Edwin is not unhappy,
because he knows the 'peace within which passeth
show,' while his intellectual attainments are
of the highest order. But, in case you should
weave a romance, Evelin, out of these details,</q>
added Mrs. Priestly, faintly smiling, <q>it is but
fair I warn you, that romance and Edwin may
not be coupled together, for he is&mdash;alas! poor
fellow&mdash;an unsightly and deformed creature; his
captivations are those only of the heart and mind&mdash;in
this he shines pre-eminent. Again let me
remind you, my love, not to allude to Mr. Edwin
in conversation; forget him altogether, except
when you speak to me. I know that you are
not tormented with feminine curiosity, or I would
tell you to ask no questions. This is my secret,
Evelin, which I fearlessly confide to your keeping.</q>
</p>

<p>
However, Mrs. Priestly did me more than justice,
for though I certainly endeavored to indulge
no idle speculations on the forbidden topic, yet I
was not apathetic enough to forget it; more especially
after accompanying Mrs. Priestly to see
her mysterious friend, whose <foreign rend='italic'>mnage</foreign>, to say nothing
of himself, might have excused a far more
insensible person than I was for feeling a strong
interest and sympathy. Surrounded by thick
woods on all sides save one, which opened toward
the same river that washed the emerald
turf of Lodimer, we came to a small spot of
ground resembling a <q>clearing,</q> and I fancied
we were transported to those wild western lands
I had so often read of&mdash;the old ivy-covered hunting-lodge
in the midst adding much to the real
beauty of the picture, though detracting somewhat
from its savage charms. Quantities of
feathered tribes were strutting about within the
inclosure, or enjoying themselves in various attitudes
of indolence or security; an immense
aviary extended down one side of the clearing,
fitted up with the view of affording as much
solace and liberty of movement as possible to the
inmates. The whole place seemed alive with
fowls of the air, and we beheld a human form
within the wire-work of the aviary, literally covered
with birds, small and large, wherever they
could find a resting-place&mdash;on head, arms, or
back&mdash;and many more were fluttering and crowding
over and around him, as Mr. Edwin&mdash;for it
was he&mdash;proceeded to dispense food to his loving
flock. Presently he made his escape, and approached
us, with a jay perched on one shoulder
and a magpie on the other, appearing to hold
whispering discourse with their benefactor, who
fondly caressed and chirruped to them in turn.
He was of middling stature, perceptibly and
painfully deformed; but his countenance was
such an one as Raphael would have loved to
portray&mdash;holy, placid, and spiritual, beyond any
mortal face I have looked upon before or since.
His voice was inexpressibly touching and melodious;
it thrilled the heart of the listener, for
there was an intonation of sadness in its tone,
though the words were cheerful, as he cordially
and warmly welcomed us. We followed him
into a long, low-roofed apartment, the windows
of which looked out on woodland vistas, and on
all sides, from floor to ceiling, it was lined with
books, and cases containing stuffed birds, for
Mr. Edwin was devoted to the study of ornithology,
and almost rivaled Audubon in patient
watching and research. A married couple, of
quiet and orderly habits, formed the domestic
establishment at Ivy Lodge; and the profound
stillness and solitude of this sylvan retreat was
unbroken, save by the cooing of the cushat dove,
the song-birds' varied notes, the sonorous hooting
of the white owl up among the eaves, and
the occasional screams of the splendid peacocks
ringing through the greenwood glades.
</p>

<p>
Here was the paradise of the feathered creatures,
here they were all fostered and protected;
and Mr. Edwin had attained the mysterious art
of taming the wild denizens of the woods as
surely and wonderfully, if not quite as rapidly,
as did that celebrated Arab horse-leech exert his
skill on quadrupeds, whispering in the ear of
vicious and hitherto untamable steeds, who immediately
became docile and subdued. Even
shy and stately swans knew this lonely clearing
<pb n='472'/><anchor id='Pg472'/>
on the river banks, and frequently came to be
fed by Mr. Edwin's gentle hand; the swans had
a nest here among the reeds, and broods of cygnets
were reared in this haven of peace. Mr.
Edwin had made many beautiful copies of rare
birds, which he could not otherwise preserve, the
colors being brilliant and true to nature, as well as
the size of each specimen; and I felt not a little
delighted when he accepted my timid offer of
assistance in this branch of his study, for I was
afraid that my poor efforts would fall far short
of his masterly productions. But Mrs. Priestly
re-assured me, and she told Mr. Edwin that he
had found a valuable coadjutor, for bird-painting
had always been quite a passion with me&mdash;a
strange taste, perhaps, for a young lady, though
I know not why it should be considered more
out of the way than copying flowers from nature.
However, I exerted myself to the utmost, and
succeeded well, for he gave my drawings unqualified
approbation, and was eloquent in thanking
me. I am sure the amiable recluse read my
heart at once, and saw how eagerly and gratefully
I availed myself of this opportunity, trifling
as it was, of gratifying Mrs. Priestly, to whom I
owed so much; for her affection toward Mr. Edwin
rendered attentions bestowed on him personally
felt and acknowledged by her. This
similarity of taste, together with our mutual love
and veneration for Mrs. Priestly, induced that
kindly communion between Mr. Edwin and myself
which afterward ripened into a lasting friendship,
cemented by time. He was, indeed, wise
unto salvation. Learned not only in this world's
lore, but in that wisdom which maketh not
ashamed, he bore his daily cross most meekly,
and yet most manfully. Deeply alive to the
beautiful, keenly sensitive on all points, tender-hearted
and affectionate, he lived alone in the
woodland solitude, not, I was convinced, from
any morbid disinclination to encounter his kind
on account of his personal affliction (he was too
humble and good for that), but from some unknown
and mysterious cause, some hidden sorrow,
which rendered solitude in a retreat like
this desirable. At Lodimer, I never gazed on
the gay and sparkling river, without remembering
that it flowed onward toward the swan's nest
among the reeds. I never gazed on the thick,
rich woods, or heard the wood-pigeon's cooing
across the waters at the hushed evening hour,
without a sensation of tranquillity and peace
stealing over my spirit, as fancy pictured the
lonely lodge, the soft twittering around it, and
the dense shadows beyond.
</p>

<p>
I obeyed Mrs. Priestly, and never asked a
question concerning Mr. Edwin, but I pondered
much on this interesting subject; and whenever
my thoughts turned away from the vanities of
this world, they always rested with satisfaction
on the ornithologist.
</p>

<p>
As the time drew nigh for our departure to
Lovell Castle, I observed a degree of restlessness
on Mr. Edwin which I had not hitherto noticed,
and frequent gloomy abstraction, which he vainly
endeavored to shake off in our presence. Mrs.
Priestly often conversed alone with him, when
traces of agitation were visible on her countenance,
and tears on his; and when she bade him
farewell, these words lingered on his lips&mdash;<q>Tell
dear Mildred how happy I am.</q>
</p>

<p>
Lovell Castle was a dark, frowning pile, bearing
an ancient date, while some portions were
more antiquated still, and had fallen into disuse.
It was a real castle of the olden time; I had often
read of such with interest and delight, but
now I could explore for myself. Here were dungeons
and vaulted chambers, trap-doors and loop-holes,
intricate passages, secret hiding-places,
and curious old oaken chests, battlements and
turrets, carved work and tapestry, banqueting
hall and chapel&mdash;in short, all the appendages
necessary for romance in feudal days.
</p>

<p>
The family consisted of Mr. Lovell, Mildred,
his eldest daughter by a first wife, and Harold
and Rose, the children of the second Mrs. Lovell,
who had died when Rose was an infant. Mildred
was tenderly beloved by Mrs. Priestly; and, as
she never quitted her hypochondriacal father, it
was principally to see this dear niece that the
widow left her quiet home on the margin of
Lodimer's blue waters. I was absolutely startled
by the extraordinary and striking likeness between
the ornithologist and Mildred Lovell&mdash;the
same placid, sweet expression of countenance,
the same gentle, winning manners, too. While
in unobtrusive performance of her duties toward
God and man, this good daughter and sister
journeyed onward through life, ministering to
the comfort and well-being of all, but without
exacting a meed of praise or a single glance of
admiration. Mildred was nobody at Lovell Castle;
but, had she been absent, her absence would
have been universally bewailed, and her value
known: they were perhaps too used to the blessing
to appreciate it, even as the sun shines day
after day, and we do not remark it as any thing
unusual.
</p>

<p>
Rose was a volatile, thoughtless girl, yet affectionate
and kind-hearted withal, and dearly
loved her elder sister, who had indeed filled the
place of a mother to her. Rose had elastic, unvarying
spirits, which were not unwelcome in
that dull old place, and kept the inmates from
stagnation. She and Harold were the father's
darlings, though all Mr. Lovell's hope and pride
centred in his son. Pre-eminently beautiful in
person, active and graceful, Harold Lovell was
born the same year as his deceased cousin, Jocelyn
Priestly, and the youths had strongly resembled
each other, not only in person but in disposition.
The partial parents had not, perhaps,
read those dispositions truthfully, or in both their
children they might have traced evil propensities,
which went far to counterbalance the good&mdash;revengeful
passions, and a proneness to selfish
indulgence, which not all their brilliant acquirements
and feats of gallant prowess could conceal
from a close observer of character. They were
at the same school together, and at Lovell Castle
for the vacation, when that sad catastrophe took
place which plunged the family in irremediable
<pb n='473'/><anchor id='Pg473'/>
affliction. Mr. Lovell, who had always been a
nervous, ailing man, never recovered the shock,
and latterly he had sunk into complete indolence,
and left the care and management of his affairs
entirely to Harold, who, however, ill-fulfilled his
duties. The aversion which Mrs. Priestly entertained
toward her nephew, and which she
vainly strove to conceal, had once been the source
of painful contention between Mr. Lovell and his
sister, though now it had settled down into a
silent grief never alluded to by either of them.
All these particulars I had heard from Rose; and
much I was amazed at Mrs. Priestly's conduct,
coupled with the avowal she had made to me
respecting the disposal of her property in favor
of her nephew; but I knew her to be a just and
strong-minded woman, and felt sure there was
some mystery connected with these family details,
which Rose was bursting to disclose, the
first convenient opportunity. But I gave her no
encouragement to do so, for I thought that, had
Mrs. Priestly wished me to know the secret motives
by which she was actuated, her confidence
would have been already bestowed; and it seemed
a breach of trust, or dishonorable, to gain the
knowledge by other means. The sweet benignity
of Mildred Lovell, her untiring patience and
unaffected cheerfulness, as well as the strong
resemblance of feature, continually reminded me
of Mr. Edwin, and I pondered often on the parting
words which I had heard him address to Mrs.
Priestly&mdash;<q>Tell dear Mildred how happy I am.</q>
</p>

<p>
And what was Mildred to Mr. Edwin? Wherefore
was he exiled and alone? What had he
done that his name was forbidden to be spoken
at Lovell? These ideas constantly haunted me,
despite my determination to exclude such idle
questionings concerning the mysterious affair.
Rose sometimes communicated some portion of
her own gay spirit to me: we were thrown much
together, for Mildred was constantly occupied
with her invalid parent, and Mrs. Priestly shared
the duties of her beloved niece. But I often desired
the solitude which was more congenial to
my turn of mind, though it was not always easy
to obtain it, as Rose, from a mistaken kindness,
continually watched my movements, and accompanied
me wheresoever I desired to go. It was
impossible to check the affectionate girl in a direct
manner; but I discovered that there was
one locality particularly avoided by all the inmates
of the castle, which had fallen into decay, and
was seldom approached by Rose. This was the
western wing or turret; and thither, accordingly,
I often bent my steps, in search of quietude, and
also of a magnificent prospect to be viewed from
the summit. In this sumptuous home at Lovell
Castle, my thoughts often wandered to Ivy Lodge
on Lodimer's banks, and its lonely occupant,
apart from the vanities of life, contented and
cheerful under afflictions which were, I felt sure,
of no common nature. I compared the pious recluse
with the heir of Lovell, toward whom an
inexpressible feeling of repugnance reigned in
my breast. Harold was devoted to field sports
and the pleasures of the table; he was, in fact,
the real master, consulting only his own time
and inclinations on all occasions. His bloated,
though still handsome countenance, evidenced excess;
while a dictatorial manner, as of one unused
to reproof or contradiction, was habitual.
A constant restlessness and irritability, a quick
turn of the eye, a wild glance, betokened a mind
ill at ease. He was a scoffer at religion, too,
an unkind brother, and an undutiful son to the
doating father, who yet believed and saw no
faults in his offspring. Despite her brother's
harshness, Rose, with devoted sisterly affection,
extenuated Harold's conduct, and it was very
beautiful to witness her womanly tenderness and
forbearance. It might be that Mildred was the
child of another mother, and that circumstances
had somewhat weakened the ties of blood; but
notwithstanding her general kindness of demeanor
toward all, including Harold, there was
a perceptible shade of coldness when addressing
him. She never volunteered an embrace, to be
cast off, like the persevering, warm-hearted Rose;
she never clung to her brother, praying him to
remain at home, when he was about to engage
in any hazardous or foolish exploit. No; there
was some sin or sorrow which had weaned and
divided this brother and sister, until the erring
one should turn and repent. And who could
doubt that Mildred Lovell would open wide her
arms to receive the penitent?
</p>

<p>
I had sought my favorite deserted turret, to
contemplate a glorious sunset behind the distant
mountains, when Rose joined me on the summit,
from whence we gazed on the dizzy depth
below. She was unusually serious and pale;
her laugh was hushed, and she spoke in whispers.
</p>

<p>
<q>Why do you choose this spot, Evelin, to indulge
your reveries?</q> she said, <q>for I can not
bear to remain here; and Harold would not ascend
this western tower for all the universe.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And why is it so distasteful to you, Rose?</q>
I inquired, with some curiosity, <q>for the view is
the most superb I ever witnessed. Is this wing
of the castle <emph>haunted</emph>?</q> I added, with a smile,
taking her arm, and making a step nearer to the
edge, guarded only by a very low, broad parapet.
</p>

<p>
She convulsively drew me back, exclaiming&mdash;<q>Oh!
Evelin, if you knew the dreadful recollections
attached to this turret, you would not marvel
at my being so nervous. <emph>I</emph> do not believe it
is haunted, but there are folks who do. They
report that white fleecy shadows hover around it
by night, though perhaps the owls and birds
building in the crevices may account for the supposed
supernatural appearances.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And wherefore, Rose, is this turret in such
bad repute? What are the dreadful recollections
attached to it? A legend of olden times, perhaps?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Alas, Evelin,</q> responded my companion,
<q>'tis a reality of our own. My poor cousin,
Jocelin Priestly, met with his fearful end here.
He fell from this dizzy height on the shaven
turf beneath, and lived but a few moments afterward.</q>
</p>

<pb n='474'/><anchor id='Pg474'/>

<p>
<q>But how did this fatal accident occur, Rose?</q>
I inquired. <q>Why have you never mentioned
it before?</q>
</p>

<p>
Paler than ever, Rose replied, with a faltering
voice, <q>Because it was <emph>not</emph> an <emph>accident</emph>, Evelin</q>
(she shivered, and put her lips close to my ear).
<q>He was cast down intentionally.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>By whom, Rose?</q> My heart throbbed violently;
strange thoughts were rushing through
my brain.
</p>

<p>
<q>I dare not tell you; I am forbidden to reveal
more. I was very young at the time, and things
were hushed up; but poor Milly has been a
changed being ever since.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Mildred!</q> I exclaimed, in surprise; <q>what
effect could this tragedy have on her, more than
on other members of your family?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>It had, it had, Evelin, because she desired to
screen the guilty; but ask me no more, and let
us quit this hateful place.</q>
</p>

<p>
My mind was bewildered and uneasy. Who
could the guilty person alluded to be, and wherefore
such a mystery preserved? The wildest
conjectures disturbed my imagination, while redoubled
love and sympathy were given to the
bereaved mother. But this tangled web was soon
to be unraveled&mdash;unraveled in an awful and sudden
manner, for that avenging arm was outstretched
which no mortal can withstand.
</p>

<p>
We were preparing to return home, and I was
happy in the near prospect of seeing dear Lodimer
so soon. Harold Lovell left the castle at
early morn in high health and spirits, to attend a
race meeting, some few miles off, with several
boon companions. A quarrel arose, and Harold,
deeming himself insulted, and more than half inebriated,
struck a desperate gambler, who demanded
satisfaction on the spot. Harold fell,
mortally wounded, and was borne back to Lovell
on a litter, late in the evening. The father's despair,
blessedly merged in insensibility, the sister's
agony, we draw a vail over.
</p>

<p>
Mrs. Priestly, Mildred, and myself, with the
medical attendants, alone were calm and of use,
so far, indeed, as human aid extended. The domestics
were wildly running hither and thither,
but to no purpose: Harold Lovell was rapidly
dying. Mrs. Priestly supported the expiring
sufferer; she bathed his temples, and spoke
words of peace. You would have deemed him
the son of her fondest love, all dislike merged in
pity and the tenderest solicitude. Suddenly Harold
opened his glazing eyes to their widest extent;
he recognized her, while a shudder convulsively
shook his whole frame. He essayed to
articulate, and at length these broken sentences
were heard, <q>Forgive me, Aunt Priestly&mdash;<emph>now</emph>
forgive. 'Twas I did it! Edwin is innocent; I
am the murderer. Oh! mercy! mercy!</q>
</p>

<p>
Mrs. Priestly had sank down beside the couch,
as with clasped hands she raised her streaming
eyes to heaven; then burying her face, she murmured&mdash;<q>I
do forgive you, poor boy, and so does
Edwin, freely.</q> The spirit passed into eternity
as she spoke these words. I saw Mildred fling
herself into Mrs. Priestly's arms, and I remember
no more, for, unused to such scenes, my
strength succumbed.
</p>

<p>
Mr. Lovell and his son were laid side by side
in the family vault on the same day; the broken-hearted
father surviving his beloved child but a
few hours. That son's dying confession was repeated
to him, although he took no notice at the
time, and lived not to make restitution to the innocent;
but to his daughters, as co-heiresses,
the whole of his immense wealth descended; and
yet Mr. Lovell left a son&mdash;a good, noble-hearted
son, whom he had unjustly disinherited. When
the disinherited was told that the only words his
departed parent had spoken after receiving his
death-blow, the only token of consciousness he
had evinced was in faintly murmuring, <q>Bless
Edwin, my son,</q> that son valued the world's
wealth but as dross in comparison; nor would
he have exchanged those precious words for all
the uncounted riches of the globe! His father
then had believed him innocent, and had blessed
him; and Edwin, the ornithologist of Ivy Lodge,
came to Lovell Castle, justly lord of all, but owning
nothing save a thankful heart and a peaceful
mind, to be clasped in the arms of his faithful
sister Mildred, for they were twins, and linked
together in heart. Then, and not till then, were
the following particulars narrated to Rose and
myself by Mrs. Priestly. Rose mourned deeply
for her brother, but justice to the living demanded
full disclosure of the truth.
</p>

<p>
Edwin had never been a favorite with his
father, a fall in infancy having rendered him unsightly,
and probably occasioned the delicate
health which induced that love of studious repose
so opposite to those qualities which Mr.
Lovell admired in his younger son. A tutor was
provided for Edwin at home, while Harold, with
his cousin, Jocelin Priestly, was sent to a public
school. With unfeeling thoughtlessness, Jocelin
used often to amuse himself by joking at
the expense of Edwin's personal deformity, calling
him <q>hunchback,</q> and many other nick-names,
all of which the amiable youth bore with
unflinching patience and fortitude, ever returning
good for evil. The quarrels and rivalry between
Harold and Jocelin were violent and unceasing;
and, previous to the last vacation, they had risen
to a fiercer pitch than formerly, Jocelin Priestly
having carried off a prize from Harold, which the
latter declared was unfair. Jocelin's spirits were
outrageous, and in reckless levity he made so
unceasing a butt of the unfortunate elder brother,
that Edwin determined to keep himself as much
aloof as possible from the boisterous pair, whose
bickerings and headstrong passion disturbed his
equanimity. Mildred, whose love and veneration
for her beloved brother was returned by him with
a depth of affection which only the isolated can
feel, vainly tried to make peace and preserve concord.
Mrs. Priestly, with a mother's doating
partiality for an only child, never <emph>allowed</emph> Jocelin
to be in fault, though she would chide his exuberant
spirits, and liked not that he should
wound the gentle Edwin, whom she dearly loved.
Mr. Lovell, on the other hand, laughed at the
<pb n='475'/><anchor id='Pg475'/>
lads' faults; and, when he could not laugh, winked
at them: <q>Edwin was a milk-sop, and Harold
and Jocelin fine, high-spirited, handsome fellows,
who would grow wiser as they grew older.</q> Mrs.
Priestly <q>hoped so</q>&mdash;she <q>prayed so; and Jocelin
was so clever and handsome, that a little
steadiness was all he needed; there was nothing
else amiss.</q> So argued the blind mother; and,
next to Harold, his uncle Lovell's affections were
lavished on this nephew.
</p>

<p>
When these two youths made their appearance
at the castle, Edwin frequently retired to the
western turret, where he could read and meditate
alone, and enjoy the lovely landscape. Here he
was resting on a projecting stone, which served
as a bench, part of the edifice screening him from
view, when Jocelin Priestly appeared on the
summit with a telescope in hand, and, with boyish
recklessness, jumped on the low parapet, balancing
himself on the extreme verge, as he applied
the glass to his eye. In another moment
Harold came leaping up the turret-stairs, boiling
with furious passion; and, darting forward, he
clutched at the glass, screaming, as he did so,
<q>How dare you take my telescope, sir, when
you know I forbade you?</q> There was a struggle,
a violent thrust, succeeded by a scream of
horror and despair, and Edwin beheld his brother
Harold alone on that dizzy height.
</p>

<p>
All this had passed in a moment a of time apparently.
Harold looked round with a wild, terrified
glance, and fled, Edwin's limbs refusing to
sustain him in his efforts to reach the parapet,
as he lost consciousness, and swooned. Jocelin
Priestly's fall had been noticed by a gardener,
who gave an instant alarm; but the ill-fated lad
expired in his distracted mother's arms, after articulating,
<q>I am murdered.</q>
</p>

<p>
Edwin was found on the summit of the western
turret, his incoherent exclamations and agitation
being considered proofs of guilt by his father and
tutor. He solemnly asseverated his innocence,
but refused to enter into particulars until his
brother Harold returned, for Harold was absent,
it was supposed, in the adjacent woodlands, where
he ofttimes resorted to practice with his gun.
When he did return, Harold with well-acted surprise
heard the dreadful tidings, and demanded,
in a careless manner, where Edwin had been at
the time? When informed that he was found
on the summit of the tower, and of the deceased's
fearful avowal in his dying moments, Harold
exclaimed, <q>Edwin has indeed avenged himself
on poor Jocelin.</q> And Edwin was branded as
the dastardly wretch who had taken his cousin's
life thus!
</p>

<p>
Edwin denied the foul deed with indignation
and horror; but, when Harold's words were repeated
to him, he hung his head, and blushed
scarlet. He spoke no more, save to affirm his
innocence; and, when questioned as to Jocelin
Priestly having been near him on the tower just
before he met with his death, Edwin admitted
the fact; but, when further pressed, he became
confused, and painful internal struggles were
evident.
</p>

<p>
Mr. Lovell discarded his son forever. He
would not harbor, he said, one who had vengefully
taken the life of his beloved nephew; the
law, indeed, could not reach the criminal, but a
father's malediction could! So the hapless Edwin
was disowned and disinherited by his indignant
parent, who granted him a stipend barely
sufficient for subsistence, and thrust him forth as
an alien. Harold had not encountered his brother's
placid gaze; he shrank from being alone
with him, and when Edwin begged for an audience,
it was refused. Mildred protested her
brother's innocence. Edwin had never swerved
from truth in his life; and, strange to say, there
was another who sided with Mildred, and that
other, the miserable mother of the victim. She
had scrutinized and watched Harold Lovell closely;
and when Edwin knelt beside her, and said,
with quiet, but impressive calmness, <q>I am innocent,
aunt; I never injured a hair of my cousin's
head,</q> he was believed by that jealous,
breaking heart.
</p>

<p>
<q>But you were <emph>there</emph>, Edwin,</q> cried the poor
lady; <q>you witnessed it: he came not to his
end by fair means. Speak&mdash;your brother&mdash;was
it <emph>he</emph> did this foul deed, for he envied and hated
my son&mdash;the base, cowardly traitor!</q>
</p>

<p>
Passion choked Mrs. Priestly's utterance, and
Edwin was mute. Neither prayers nor entreaties
induced him to explain past circumstances connected
with the direful catastrophe. He bore
the burden of another's guilt; he bore in silence
the contumely that should have been heaped on
another, and was banished from the parental roof.
But conviction found its way to Mrs. Priestly's
heart; and, though Mr. Lovell was implacable,
nor would listen to a suspicion implied that he
<emph>might</emph> be deceived, <emph>the mother</emph> intuitively shrank
from contact with the false-hearted Harold Lovell.
As years progressed, the truth became more
and more firmly impressed on her mind; and to
him, accused by his own father of being her only
child's destroyer, she left the bulk of her fortune,
and established the outcast in her near vicinity,
firmly trusting that the Almighty, in his own
good time, would bring the real culprit to light.
<emph>Her</emph> heart fixed on this culprit, but Mr. Lovell
continued in error and darkness. Those precious
words spoken in his last hour proved, however,
that darkness was dissipated, and error abandoned,
when the dying man murmured a blessing
on his exiled son, who had sacrificed himself to
shield an ungrateful brother from shame and opprobrium.
</p>

<p>
Within two years after her father and brother's
decease, Rose rewarded the long and sincere
attachment of a neighboring squire by becoming
his wife. Lovell Castle was sold, and Mildred
repaired to Lodimer; while, on the original site
of Ivy Lodge, a more commodious dwelling was
in course of preparation. There she resided
with her beloved brother for the remainder of
their joint lives, and Mr. Edwin found in his
sweet companion not only a valuable coadjutor
in his favorite pursuits, but an absolute rival in
the affections of his feathered pets; while the
<pb n='476'/><anchor id='Pg476'/>
swan's nest among the reeds on Lodimer's fair
waters continued to be as carefully preserved
and guarded as it had been during the solitary
years of the now happy ornithologist.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>A Child's Toy.</head>

<p>
The afternoon was drawing in toward evening;
the air was crisp and cool, and the
wind near the earth, steady but gentle; while
above all was as calm as sleep, and the pale clouds&mdash;just
beginning in the west to be softly gilded
by the declining sun&mdash;hung light and motionless.
The city, although not distant, was no longer
visible, being hidden by one of the many hills
which give such enchantment to the aspect of
<emph>our</emph> city. There was altogether something singularly
soothing in the scene&mdash;something that
disposed not to gravity, but to elevated thought.
As we looked upward, there was some object
that appeared to mingle with the clouds, to form
a part of their company, to linger, mute and motionless
like them, in that breathless blue, as if
feeling the influence of the hour. It was not a
white-winged bird that had stolen away to muse
in the solitudes of air: it was nothing more than
a paper kite.
</p>

<p>
On that paper kite we looked long and intently.
It was the moral of the picture; it appeared
to gather in to itself the sympathies of the whole
beautiful world; and as it hung there, herding
with the things of heaven, our spirit seemed to
ascend and perch upon its pale bosom like a
wearied dove. Presently we knew the nature
of the influence it exercised upon our imagination;
for a cord, not visible at first to the external
organs, though doubtless felt by the inner
sense, connected it with the earth of which we
were a denizen. We knew not by what hand
the cord was held so steadily. Perhaps by some
silent boy, lying prone on the sward behind yonder
plantation, gazing up along the delicate ladder,
and seeing unconsciously angels ascending
and descending. When we had looked our fill,
we went slowly and thoughtfully home along the
deserted road, and nestled, as usual, like a moth,
among our books. A dictionary was lying near;
and with a languid curiosity to know what was
said of the object that had interested us so much,
we turned to the word, and read the following
definition: Kite&mdash;<emph>a child's toy</emph>.
</p>

<p>
What wonderful children there are in this
world, to be sure! Look at that American boy,
with his kite on his shoulder, walking in a field
near Philadelphia. He is going to have a fly;
and it is famous weather for the sport, for it is
in June&mdash;June, 1752. The kite is but a rough
one, for Ben has made it himself, out of a silk
handkerchief stretched over two cross-sticks.
Up it goes, however, bound direct for a thunder-cloud
passing overhead; and when it has arrived
at the object of its visit, the flier ties a key to
the end of his string, and then fastens it with
some silk to a post. By and by he sees some
loose threads of the hempen-string bristle out
and stand up, as if they had been charged with
electricity. He instantly applies his knuckles to
the key, and as he draws from it the electrical
spark, this strange little boy is struck through
the very heart with an agony of joy. His laboring
chest relieves itself with a deep sigh, and he
feels that he could be contented to die that moment.
And indeed he was nearer death than he
supposed; for as the string was sprinkled with
rain, it became a better conductor, and gave out
its electricity more copiously; and if it had been
wholly wet, the experimenter might have been
killed upon the spot. So much for <emph>this</emph> child's
toy. The splendid discovery it made&mdash;of the
identity of lightning and electricity&mdash;was not allowed
to rest by Ben Franklin. By means of
an insulated iron rod the new Prometheus drew
down fire from heaven, and experimented with
it at leisure in his own house. He then turned
the miracle to a practical account, constructing
a pointed metallic rod to protect houses from
lightning. One end of this true magic wand is
higher than the building, and the other end
buried in the ground; and the submissive lightning,
instead of destroying life and property in
its gambols, darts direct along the conductor into
the earth. We may add that Ben was a humorous
boy, and played at various things as well as
kite-flying. Hear this description of his pranks
at an intended pleasure-party on the banks of the
Schuylkill: <q>Spirits at the same time are to be
fired by a spark sent from side to side through
the river, without any other conductor than water&mdash;an
experiment which we have some time
since performed to the amazement of many. A
turkey is to be killed for dinner by the electrical
shock; and roasted by the electrical jack, before
a fire kindled by the electrical bottle; when the
healths of all the famous electricians in England,
Holland, France, and Germany, are to be drunk
in electrified bumpers, under the discharge of
guns from the electrical battery.</q>
</p>

<p>
We now turn to a group of capital little fellows
who did something more than fly their kite.
These were English skippers, promoted somehow
to the command of vessels before they had
arrived at years of discretion; and chancing to
meet at the port of Alexandria in Egypt, they
took it into their heads&mdash;these naughty boys&mdash;that
they would drink a bowl of punch on the
top of Pompey's Pillar. This pillar had often
served them for a signal at sea. It was composed
of red granite, beautifully polished, and standing
114 feet high, overtopped the town. But how
to get up? They sent for a kite, to be sure;
and the men, women, and children of Alexandria,
wondering what they were going to do with it,
followed the toy in crowds. The kite was flown
over the Pillar, and with such nicety, that when
it fell on the other side the string lodged upon
the beautiful Corinthian capital. By this means
they were able to draw over the Pillar a two-inch
rope, by which one of the youngsters
<q>swarmed</q> to the top. The rope was now in
a very little while converted into a sort of rude
shroud, and the rest of the party followed, and
actually drank their punch on a spot which,
seen from the surface of the earth, did not
<pb n='477'/><anchor id='Pg477'/>
appear to be capable of holding more than one
man.
</p>

<p>
By means of this exploit it was ascertained
that a statue had once stood upon the column&mdash;and
a statue of colossal dimensions it must have
been to be properly seen at such a height. But
for the rest&mdash;if we except the carvings of sundry
initials on the top&mdash;the result was only the
knocking down of one of the volutes of the capital,
for boys are always doing mischief; and this
was carried to England by one of the skippers,
in order to execute the commission of a lady,
who, with the true iconoclasm of her country,
had asked him to be so kind as to bring her a
piece of Pompey's Pillar.
</p>

<p>
Little fellows, especially of the class of brick-layers,
are no great readers, otherwise we might
suspect that the feat of the skipper-boys had
conveyed some inspiration to Steeple Jack. Who
is Steeple Jack? asks some innocent reader at
the Antipodes. He is a little, spare creature
who flies his kite over steeples when there is
any thing to do to them, and lodging a cord on
the apex, contrives by its means to reach the
top without the trouble of scaffolding. No fragility,
no displacement of stones, no leaning from
the perpendicular, frightens Steeple Jack. He
is as bold as his namesake, Jack-the-Giant-Killer,
and does as wonderful things. At Dunfermline,
not long ago, when the top of the spire was in
so crazy a state that the people in the street
gave it a wide berth as they passed, he swung
himself up without hesitation, and set every thing
to rights. At the moment we write, his cord is
seen stretched from the tall, slim, and elegant
spire of the Assembly Hall in Edinburgh, which
is to receive, through his agency, a lightning-conductor;
and Jack only waits the subsidence
of a gale of wind to glide up that filmy rope like
a spider. He is altogether a strange boy, Steeple
Jack. Nobody knows where he roosts upon the
earth, if he roosts any where at all. The last
time there was occasion for his services, this advertisement
appeared in the <hi rend='italic'>Scotsman</hi>: <q>Steeple
Jack is wanted at such a place immediately</q>&mdash;and
immediately Steeple Jack became visible.
</p>

<p>
In 1827 the child's toy was put to a very remarkable
use by one Master George Pocock.
This clever little fellow observed that his kite
sometimes gave him a very strong pull, and it
occurred to him that if made large enough it
might be able to pull something else. In fact,
he at length yoked a pair of large kites to a carriage,
and traveled in it from Bristol to London,
distancing in grand style every other conveyance
on the road. A twelve-foot kite, it appears, in
a moderate breeze, has a one-man power of
draught, and when the wind is brisker, a force
equal to 200 lbs. The force in a rather high
wind is as the squares of the lengths; and two
kites of fifteen and twelve feet respectively, fastened
one above the other will draw a carriage
and four or five passengers at the rate of twenty
miles an hour. But George's invention went
beyond the simple idea. He had an extra line
which enabled him to vary the angle of the surface
of his kites with the horizon, so as to make
his aerial horses go fast or slow as he chose;
and side lines to vary the direction of the force,
till it came almost to right angles with the direction
of the wind. His kites were made of varnished
linen, and might be folded up into small
compass. The same principle was successfully
applied by a nautical lad of the name of Dansey
to the purpose of saving vessels in a gale of
wind on <q>the dread lee shore.</q> His kite was
of light canvas.
</p>

<p>
In India, China, and the intermediate countries,
the aggregate population of which includes
one-half of mankind, kites are the favorite toy
of both old and young boys, from three years to
threescore and ten. Sometimes they really resemble
the conventional dragon, from which,
among Scotch children, they derive their name,
sometimes they are of a diamond shape, and
sometimes they are like a great spider with a
narrow waist. Our Old Indian is eloquent on
kites, and the glory of their colors, which, in the
days of other years, made her girlish heart leap,
and her girlish eyes dazzle. The kite-shop is
like a tulip-bed, full of all sorts of gay and gorgeous
hues. The kites are made of Chinese
paper, thin and tough, and the ribs of finely-split
bamboo. A wild species of silkworm is pressed
into the service, and set to spin <foreign rend='italic'>nuck</foreign> for the
strings&mdash;a kind of thread which, although fine,
is surprisingly strong. Its strength, however, is
wanted for aggression as well as endurance; and
a mixture composed of pounded glass and rice
gluten is rubbed over it. Having been dried in
the sun, the prepared string is now wound upon
a handsome reel of split bamboo inserted in a
long handle. One of these reels, if of first-rate
manufacture, costs a shilling, although coarser
ones are very cheap; and of the nuck, about
four annas, or sixpence worth, suffices for a kite.
</p>

<p>
In a Hindoo town the kite-flying usually takes
place on some common ground in the vicinity,
and there may be seen the young and old boys
in eager groups, and all as much interested in
the sport as if their lives depended upon their
success. And sometimes, indeed, their fortunes
do. Many a poor little fellow bets sweetmeats
upon his kite to the extent of his only anna in
the world; and many a rich baboo has more
rupees at stake than he can conveniently spare.
But the exhilarating sport makes every body
courageous; and the glowing colors of the kites
enable each to identify his own when in the air,
and give him in it, as it were, a more absolute
property. Matches are soon made. Up go the
aerial combatants, and, with straining eyes and
beating hearts, their fate is watched from below.
But their masters are far from passive, for this
is no game of chance, depending upon the wind.
Kite-flying is in these countries an art and mystery;
and some there be who would not disclose
their recipe for the nuck-ointment, if their own
grandfathers should go upon their knees to ask it.
</p>

<p>
Sometimes an event occurs on the common.
It is the ascent of a pair of kites of a <foreign rend='italic'>distingu</foreign>
air, and whose grand and determined manner
<pb n='478'/><anchor id='Pg478'/>
shows that the combat is to be <foreign rend='italic'> l'outrance</foreign>, and
that a large stake of money depends upon the
result. The fliers are invisible. They are probably
on the flat roof of some neighboring house;
but the kites are not the less interesting on account
of their origin being unknown. What a
host of anxious faces are turned up to the sky!
Some take a liking to the red at first sight, while
others feel attracted by a mysterious sympathy
to the green. Bets are freely offered and accepted,
either in sweetmeats or money; and the
crowd, condensing, move to and fro in a huge
wave, from which their eager voices arise like
the continuous roaring of the sea. Higher and
higher go the kites. Well done, Red! he has
shot above his antagonist, and seems meditating
a swoop; but the Green, serenely scornful, continues
to soar, and is soon uppermost. And thus
they go&mdash;now up, now down, relatively to each
other, but always ascending higher and higher,
till the spectators almost fear that they will
vanish out of sight. But at length the Green,
taking advantage of a loftier position he has
gained, makes a sudden circuit, and by an adroit
manuvre gets his silken string over the silken
string of the other. Here a shout of triumph
and a yell of terror break simultaneously from
the crowd; for this is the crisis of the fight.
The victor gives a fierce cut upon his adversary's
line. The backers of the latter fancy they hear
it grate, and in an instant their forebodings are
realized; for the unfortunate Red is seen to
waver like a bird struck by a shot, and then, released
from the severed string, he descends in
forlorn gyrations to the earth.
</p>

<p>
Now rush in the smaller boys to play their
part. Their object is that of the plunderers who
traverse the field after a battle, to rob the dying
and the slain. Off run the little Hindoos, like
a company of imps from the nether regions, tearing
and fighting as they fly; and on reaching
the fallen kite, the object of their contention is
torn to pieces in the scuffle. Presently the victorious
Green is seen descending, and the gross
excitement of the common pauses to watch his
majestic flight. He is of the largest size of Indian
kites called <foreign rend='italic'>ching</foreign>, and of the spider shape. Before
being drawn in, he hangs for an instant high
up over the crowd. It is not, however, to sing <foreign rend='italic'>Io
Pans</foreign> for his victory, but apparently rather to
mourn over the ruin he has made; for a wailing
music breathes from his wings as he passes. This
is caused by the action of the wind upon some
finely-split bamboo twigs arched over the kite
without touching the paper, and which thus become
a true olian harp. Sometimes a kite of
this kind is sent up at night, bearing a small
lighted lantern of talc; and the sleepers awakened,
called to their balconies by the unearthly
music, gaze after the familiar apparition not
without a poetical thrill.
</p>

<p>
Upon the whole, it must be admitted, we think,
that this is a somewhat interesting child's toy.
But has the kite a future? Will its powers exhibit
new developments, or has it already reached
its pride of place? If a twelve-feet kite has the
force of a man, would it take many more feet to
lift a man into the air? And supposing the man
to be in a strong cage of network, with bamboo
ribs, and a seat of the same material, would he
have greater difficulty in governing his aerial
coursers by means of the Pocock cords, than if
he were flashing along the road from Bristol to
London? Mind, we do not say that this is possible:
we merely ask for the sake of information;
and if any little boy will favor us with his opinion,
we shall take it very kind. Come, and let
us fancy that it <emph>is</emph> possible. The traveler feels
much more comfortable than in the car of a balloon,
for he knows he can go pretty nearly in
what direction he chooses, and that he can hasten
or check the pace of his horses, and bring them
to a stand-still at pleasure. See him, therefore,
boldly careering through the air at the rate of
any number of miles the wind pleases. At a
single bound he spans yonder broad river, and
then goes bowling over the plantation beyond,
just stirring the leaves as he passes; trees, water,
houses, men, and animals gliding away beneath
his feet like a dream. Now he stoops
toward the earth, just to make the people send
up their voices that there may be some sound in
the desert air. Now he swings up again; now
he leaps over that little green hill; now he&mdash;Hold!
hold, little boy! that will do: enough, for
a time, of a Child's Toy.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head><q>Rising Generation</q>-Ism.</head>

<p>
<q>Grave and reverend seniors</q> aver, that
among the innumerable <hi rend='italic'>isms</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>pathies</hi>
which inundate this strange nineteenth century,
not the least curious, dangerous, and comical,
are those phases of character, opinion, and aspiration
embodied in the title of our sketch. Each
day, week, or month, we receive an accession to
the list of those speculations and practices, which,
embracing every department of philosophy and
art, seek to overturn hitherto accepted axioms,
and erect in their stead&mdash;what? Some <q>baseless
fabric of a vision,</q> which came we know
not whence, and tends we know not very well
whither? Or has the microscopic eye and telescopic
mind of modern European civilization discovered
other distorting flaws in the mirror in
which we view truth&mdash;other idols in the den of
treasured belief&mdash;faults which it is urgently
necessary to remedy&mdash;vices which it were
well speedily to extirpate? The answer of most
men will be sometimes the latter, oftener the
former.
</p>

<p>
What, then, is that fraternity whose members
are now denominated in a peculiar sense <q>the
rising generation,</q> albeit no existing dictionary
conveys it? How came they to assume or receive
that cognomen? <q>What are their doings&mdash;what
their ends?</q> And, finally (for this is <foreign rend='italic'>par
excellence</foreign> the practical, if not the golden English
era), how much are all these worth? In one
shape or another, we suspect that the class embraces
a great mass of our youth, we will almost
say, of <emph>both</emph> sexes.
</p>

<p>
Various definitions may be given of a member
<pb n='479'/><anchor id='Pg479'/>
of the <q>rising generation.</q> The lowest, commonest,
and most readily apprehensible to the
general reader, is that of a <q>fast young man,</q>
such as <q>Punch</q> has for some time spitted
weekly as a laughing-stock for half of the population.
A little, lean, lathy, sickly-looking
youth, delighting in rough short coats, monkey
jackets, regatta shirts, big cigars, funny walking-canes,
the smallest of boots, the most angular of
hats, the most Brobdignagian of ties&mdash;rejoicing
in a thinly-sown mustache or imperial, addicted
to brandy-and-water and casinos, going out with
the <q>afternoon delivery,</q> and coming in with
the milk. This is true so far as it goes. Ascend
a step, and there is the representative of the class
which has run to seed in the medival direction&mdash;fond
of, and learned in, all the symbols of ancient
priestly power and rank&mdash;steeped in black-letter
and illuminated missal philosophy and
theology&mdash;erudite in all the variations which
spiritual dominance has assumed&mdash;in short, the
resuscitator of the <q>good old times</q> ecclesiastical.
</p>

<p>
Again, we come to the type of the chief, and
perhaps the finest class&mdash;many-hued and many-sided,
difficult to define, more difficult to estimate.
He is a chaos of misty beliefs and dubious doubtings&mdash;a
striver after theories which would exercise
a spell over mind and matter of almost
alchemic potency&mdash;an open receiver for every
new and quackish nostrum&mdash;a shallow scholar,
with the pedantry and conceit of a ripe one&mdash;a
denier of other men's attainments, without stopping
to inquire whether he will ever be able to
equal them&mdash;apt to give dogmatic advice, and
slow to take any&mdash;lastly, and worst, he is sometimes
a rash and unphilosophic would-be analyzer
of the grounds of our most sacred belief. He
may be&mdash;indeed, frequently is&mdash;of a genuine and
earnest spirit, which he knows neither how to
direct nor bound.
</p>

<p>
In judging of the frame of mind which generates
and elaborates, or receives such impressions,
it is necessary to remember and make due allowance
for the rapid and <emph>real</emph> advances which we
have made in the sifting of old and the ascertainment
of new truth, within an almost infinitesimal
portion of time. Men now think and act vehemently&mdash;with
appliances at their elbow which,
to those who know their power, are a true Aladdin's
lamp, giving the key to thoughts and deeds,
and the clew to facts, which erst had been deemed
miraculous. When we now speak of the <q>rising
generation,</q> it is seriously. We discard the
class whose dress is apish, whose life is an inanity,
whose thoughts are vapid, if not something
fouler and worse. We would think of, and give
credit for earnestness, to that large class whose
ready reception and striving after the establishment
of all things new, for novelty's sake, and
the demolition of many things old and revered,
has fixed upon them, half in jest, half in earnest,
the sobriquet. Not only on matters of faith&mdash;on
innovations on all established practice, do they
take their stand. Education they understand in
no limited sense. The acquisition of the <emph>circle</emph>
of sciences, and <emph>nothing</emph> less, is the average of
their contentment. We are to live in an age
when every man, or, at least, every second, is
to be an Admirable Crichton. Formerly, it was
thought that the mind of man was, even in its
strength, so feeble, that strict adherence to some
single and well-defined line of study or path of
action was necessary, if a moderate skill in its
command were desired. He who loved and pursued
his knowledge of ancient people, languages,
customs, and laws, was not expected to be erudite
except in classical lore. The philosopher and
mathematician, if well acquainted in their respective
spheres with the laws and processes of
mind, matter, and number, were thought to have
learned their part. The laborer in the field of
active industry, who was skillful in the taste and
knowledge of his craft and the use of its tools,
was esteemed no cumberer of the ground. If,
after this, he cultivated his mind by a scrutiny
of the labors of others, so much the better. Under
this <foreign rend='italic'>rgime</foreign>, each man learned his own department,
every one knew something, better than his
neighbors&mdash;could follow or elucidate his special
study or calling through ramifications the other
could not trace, and thus knowledge progressed,
and became the great power that it has
grown.
</p>

<p>
But now the <q>rising generation</q> will have
matters altered. Education is all wrong, and too
limited. The spirit of unity, as the Germans
call it&mdash;that hidden elf which haunts all knowledge,
and is the same, however disguised&mdash;is not
to be caught except by a search which involves
the acquisition of every science, art, and philosophy.
This, in addition to an insane and, we
shrink not from saying, a blasphemous dallying
with things sacred, is the grand error of the
<q>rising generation</q>&mdash;the rock on which their
bark will founder, if it has not already done so.
Man can not be a <q>universal genius.</q> Let us
by all means shake off the trammels under which
education has groveled&mdash;under which she still
groans. Let us seek by all means to make education
so free, that, like the winds of heaven,
and the light of the sun, no man shall want a
reasonable&mdash;a full share of her benefits. Let us
seek accurate and varied knowledge and scholarship,
endeavoring (although it is a difficult and
subtle process) to find out for what our youth
are best fitted, by evoking the latent special talents
with which their Maker has gifted them,
and thus train them in the expert use of that
weapon which will enable them to do yeoman
service in the wide arena of the world. But,
while we do all this, let us beware. We have
before now been taunted as a nation of shopkeepers.
This was no evil, if true; but who can
calculate the direness of that calamity which shall
turn us into a nation of smatterers. This is a
looming evil of unparalleled magnitude. There
can be no doubt that at the present moment there
is a tendency to rest content with very superficial
acquirements, if they be only heterogeneous
enough. A man who can gabble the alphabet
of any science or subject may, if he has sufficient
<pb n='480'/><anchor id='Pg480'/>
presumption, gain credit for possessing a knowledge
of its arcana&mdash;for the ability necessary to
plumb its profounder depths and unravel its intricacies.
The successful practice of this imposture,
for it is nothing less, has led, and is still
leading, many to sacrifice accuracy for variety,
both in those departments which their circumstances,
rightly considered, demand that they
should thoroughly understand, and in those
branches which tend only to add grace and finish
to a liberal education.
</p>

<p>
In <q>those days,</q> the chance was that genius
often passed away unnoticed or neglected. In
<q>the good time come,</q> we fear that a similar
injustice will be done, and in a larger measure.
The modest, the sound-thinking, and really learned,
will withdraw from a field where they find
as companions or competitors only strutting jackdaws
and noisy shallow smatterers, who have
decided that they were born for other purposes
than to tread in the work-a-day paths of life. A
portion of the old as well as the <q>rising generation</q>
would do well to look to the present state
of things. There is too often a desire on the
part of parents to push their children into positions
for which they are totally unfitted. There
is a sphere for all, which, when chosen with a
due regard to ability, and not adopted through
caprice or vanity, will lead to usefulness in society
and comfort to the individual.
</p>

<p>
We have little fear of that audacious phase in
the character of the <q>rising generation,</q> which
devotes itself to a probing of those things which
have to do with our eternal destiny. A well-conducted
inquiry of this kind is a healthy symptom,
and tends to fix good impressions: and, as
for those whose temerity exceeds their judgment,
the Christian knows that his bulwarks are too
many and strong ever to be shaken by any blast
of human breath or stroke of human hand. Still,
let every stumbling-block be removed, and no
safeguard neglected, which may be of service
to those of feeble knees or weak and timorous
mind.
</p>

<p>
The <q>rising generation</q> are those upon whom
the hopes of the world will ere long rest, who
are soon to have the reins of government in their
own hands, and must play their part in the great
drama of life, at a time when its stage affords
more ample room for the development of true
nobility, richer opportunities for distinguishing
a life by action, and of signalizing it by discoveries
almost magical&mdash;a time, in short, open to
greater achievements than any that have been
won since this globe was first spun into space.
The greater the talent and the wealth of opportunity,
so much more are the dangers increased,
and the more wily the machinations of the Spirit
of Evil. While the <q>rising generation</q> adopt
as their motto <q>Excelsior,</q> and cultivate an inquiring
spirit, let it always be an earnest and
definite one, not <q>blown about by every wind
of doctrine,</q> not falling into every quagmire of
vain conceit, until the mental eye is so besmeared
that it can no longer discern the true zenith.
Yet, withal, it is not necessary to tread exclusively
in the old paths, as they are somewhat
contemptuously styled; there is need and verge
enough for pioneering new ones. <q>Beat the
bushes; there is still plenty of game to be raised.</q>
But do not disdainfully discard the experience of
those who have gone before. We do not insinuate
by this that age and priority combined make
an oracle. Yet there are comparatively few men
who can not tell something that is worth hearing&mdash;communicate
some bit of knowledge which may
save you the disbursement of some of those high
school fees which, as Thomas Carlyle keenly observes,
must be paid for experience.
</p>

<p>
It has been iterated and reiterated, that there
is no royal road to knowledge. This is true of
knowledge, as it is true of any thing that is worth
having. And this brings to our recollection a
manifestation of spirit displayed by some portions
of the <q>rising generation</q> to which we have not
yet adverted. This is called the non-mercantile
idea&mdash;a growing dislike to all manual and merely
commercial pursuits, and an over-fondness for
what are known as the learned, and more especially
the literary professions. This desire,
we fear, proceeds often from a wish to avoid labor;
and, where this is the case, we can assure
all such that literature is not the sphere for indolence.
</p>

<p>
We neither impugn the honesty nor ignore the
talents of the <q>rising generation.</q> We would
only tender them a parting advice: Think, learn,
and act, reverently and cautiously, and in the
spirit of that philosophy which has won for England
her most enduring laurels&mdash;which taught
her Newton to discard for years, until fact supported
theory, what was perhaps the broadest
glimpse of truth ever vouchsafed to the human
mind. Do so, as they dread the realization of
the outline drawn by the master-hand of Jean
Paul Richter&mdash;<q>The new-year's night of an unhappy
man.</q> His graphic picture we hold up
to the gaze of the <q>rising generation.</q> The
season is appropriate. We are all fond at this
time of retrospection, and are full of resolves for
the future. Perhaps we may strike some chord
now in jarring dissonance, that may yet vibrate
to divinest harmony.
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>An old man stood on the new-year's midnight
at the window, and gazed with a look of long
despair, upward to the immovable, ever-blooming
heaven, and down upon the still, pure, white
earth, on which no one was then so joyless and
sleepless as he. For his grave stood near him;
it was covered over only with the snow of age,
not with the green of youth; and he brought
nothing with him out of the whole rich life, no
thing with him, but errors, sins, and disease, a
wasted body, a desolated soul, the breast full of
poison, an old age full of remorse. The beautiful
days of his youth turned round to-day, as
spectres, and drew him back again to that bright
morning on which his father first placed him at
the cross-road of life, which, on the right hand,
leads by the sun-path of virtue into a wide peaceful
land full of light and of harvests, and full of
angels, and which, on the left hand, descends
<pb n='481'/><anchor id='Pg481'/>
into the mole-ways of vice, into a black cavern,
full of down-dropping poison, full of aiming serpents,
and of gloomy, sultry vapors.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Ah! the serpents hung about his breast, and
the drops of poison on his tongue. And he
knew now where he was!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Frantic, and with unspeakable grief, he called
upward to Heaven, <q>Oh! give me back my
youth again! O, father! place me once more
at the cross-path of life, that I may choose otherwise
than I did.</q> But his father and his youth
had long since passed away.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>He saw fiery exhalations dancing on the
marshes, and extinguishing themselves in the
church-yard, and he said, <q>These are the days
of my folly!</q> He saw a star fly from heaven,
and, in falling, glimmer and dissolve upon the
earth. <q>That am I!</q> said his bleeding heart,
and the serpent-teeth of remorse dug therein
further in its wounds.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>His flaming fancy showed him sleepwalkers,
slinking away on the house-tops; and a windmill
raised up its arms threateningly to destroy
him; and a mask that remained behind in the
empty charnel-house assumed by degrees his
own features.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In the midst of this paroxysm, suddenly the
music for the new year flowed down from the
steeple, like distant church anthems. He became
more gently moved. He looked round on
the horizon and upon the wide world, and thought
on the friends of his youth, who, better and more
happy than he, were now instructors of the earth,
fathers of happy children, and blest men, and he
exclaimed, <q>Oh! I also might have slumbered
like you, this new year's night with dry eyes,
had I chosen it. Ah, I might have been happy,
beloved parents! had I fulfilled your new year's
wishes and instructions.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
In feverish recollection of the period of his
youth, it appeared to him as if the mask with
his features raised itself up in the charnel-house&mdash;at
length, through the superstition which, on
the new year's night, beholds spirits and futurity,
it grew to a living youth in the position of the
beautiful boy of the capitol, pulling out a thorn;
and his former blooming figure was bitterly placed
as a phantasma before him.
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>He could behold it no longer, he covered his
eyes. A thousand hot, draining tears streamed
into the snow. He now only softly sighed, inconsolably
and unconsciously, <q>Only come again,
youth! come again!</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>And it came again, for he had only dreamed
so fearfully on the new year's night. He was
still a youth. His errors alone had been no
dream; but he thanked God that, still young, he
could turn round in the foul ways of vice, and
fall back on the sun-path which conducts into
the pure land of harvests.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Turn with him, youthful reader, if thou
standest on his path of error! This frightful
dream will, in future, become thy judge; but
shouldst thou one day call out, full of anguish,
<q>Come again, beautiful youth!</q> it would not
come again.</q>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>A Taste Of Austrian Jails.</head>

<p>
At the <q>Fte de Dieu,</q> in Vienna religious
rites are not confined to the places of worship&mdash;the
whole city becomes a church. Altars
rise in every street, and high mass is performed
in the open air, amid clouds of incense and
showers of holy water. The Emperor himself
and his family swell the procession.
</p>

<p>
I am an English workman; and, having taken
a cheering glass of Kronewetter with the worthy
landlord of my lodgings, I sauntered forth to observe
the day's proceedings. I crossed the Platz
of St. Ulrick, and thence proceeded to the high
street of Mariahilf&mdash;an important suburb of
Vienna. I passed two stately altars on my way,
and duly raised my hat, in obedience to the custom
of the country. A little crowd was collected
round the parish church of Mariahilf; and,
anticipating that a procession would pass, I took
my stand among the rest of the expectant populace.
A few assistant police, in light blue-gray
uniforms with green facings, kept the road.
</p>

<p>
A bustle about the church-door, and a band of
priests, attendants, and&mdash;what pleased me most&mdash;a
troop of pretty little girls came, two and two,
down the steps, and into the road. I remember
nothing of the procession but those beautiful and
innocent children, adorned with wreaths and
ribbons for the occasion. I was thinking of the
rosy faces I had left at home, when my reflections
were interrupted by a peremptory voice, exclaiming,
<q>Take off your hat!</q> I should have obeyed
with alacrity at any other moment; but there
was something in the manner and tone of the
<q>Polizerdiener's</q> address which touched my
pride, and made me obstinate. I drew back a
little. The order was repeated; the crowd murmured.
I half turned to go; but, the next
moment, my hat was struck off my head by the
police-assistant.
</p>

<p>
What followed was mere confusion. I struck
the <q>Polizerdiener;</q> and, in return, received
several blows on the head from behind with a
heavy stick. In less than ten minutes I was
lodged in the police-office of the district; my hat
broken and my clothes bespattered with the blood
which had dropped, and was still dropping, from
the wounds in my head.
</p>

<p>
I had full time to reflect upon the obstinate
folly which had produced this result; nor were
my reflections enlivened by the manners of the
police-agents attached to the office. They threatened
me with heavy pains and punishments; and
the Polizerdiener whom I had struck assured me,
while stanching his still-bleeding nose, that I
should have at least <q>three months for this.</q>
</p>

<p>
After several hours' waiting in the dreary
office, I was abruptly called into the commissioner's
room. The commissioner was seated at a
table with writing materials before him, and
commenced immediately, in a sharp, offensive
tone, a species of examination. After my name
and country had been demanded, he asked:
</p>

<p>
<q>Of what religion are you?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I am a Protestant.</q>
</p>

<pb n='482'/><anchor id='Pg482'/>

<p>
<q>So! Leave the room.</q>
</p>

<p>
I had made no complaint of my bruises, because
I did not think this the proper place to do
so; although the man who dealt them was
present. He had assisted, stick in hand, in
taking me to the police-office. He was in
earnest conversation with the Polizerdiener, but
soon left the office. From that instant I never
saw him again; nor, in spite of repeated demands,
could I ever obtain redress for, or even
recognition of the violence I had suffered.
</p>

<p>
Another weary hour, and I was consigned
to the care of a police-soldier; who, armed
with sabre and stick, conducted me through the
crowded city to prison. It was then two o'clock.
</p>

<p>
The prison, situated in the Spenzler Gasse, is
called the <q>Polizer-Hampt-Direction.</q> We descended
a narrow gut, which had no outlet, except
through the prison gates. They were slowly
opened at the summons of my conductor. I was
beckoned into a long gloomy apartment, lighted
from one side only; and having a long counter
running down its centre; chains and handcuffs
hung upon the walls.
</p>

<p>
An official was standing behind the counter.
He asked me abruptly:
</p>

<p>
<q>Whence come you?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>From England,</q> I answered.
</p>

<p>
<q>Where's that?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>In Great Britain; close to France.</q>
</p>

<p>
The questioner behind the counter cast an inquiring
look at my escort.
</p>

<p>
<q>Is it?</q> he asked.
</p>

<p>
The subordinate answered him, in a pleasant
way, that I had spoken the truth. Happily an
Englishman, it seems, is a rarity within those
prison walls.
</p>

<p>
I was passed into an adjoining room, which reminded
me of the back parlor of a Holywell-street
clothes-shop, only that it was rather lighter. Its
sides consisted entirely of sets of great pigeon-holes,
each occupied by the habiliments or effects
of some prisoner.
</p>

<p>
<q>Have you any valuables?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Few enough.</q> My purse, watch, and pin
were rendered up, ticketed, and deposited in one
of the compartments. I was then beckoned into
a long paved passage or corridor down some
twenty stone steps, into the densest gloom.
Presently I discerned before me a massive door
studded with bosses, and crossed with bars and
bolts. A police-soldier, armed with a drawn
sabre, guarded the entrance to Punishment-Room,
No. 1. The bolts gave way; and, in a
few moments, I was a prisoner within.
</p>

<p>
Punishment Room, No. 1, is a chamber some
fifteen paces long by six broad, with a tolerably
high ceiling and whitened walls. It has but two
windows, and they are placed at each end of one
side of the chamber. They are of good height,
and look out upon an inclosed graveled space,
variegated with a few patches of verdure. The
room is tolerably light. On each side are shelves,
as in barracks, for sleeping. In one corner, by
the window, is a stone sink; in another, a good
supply of water.
</p>

<p>
Such is the prison; but the prisoners! There
were forty-eight&mdash;gray-haired men and puny boys&mdash;all
ragged, and stalking with slippered feet from
end to end with listless eyes. Some, all eagerness;
some, crushed and motionless; some,
scared and stupid; now singing, now swearing,
now rushing about playing at some mad game;
now hushed or whispering, as the loud voice of
the Vater (or father of the ward) is heard above
the uproar, calling out <q>Ruke!</q> (<q>Order!</q>)
</p>

<p>
On my entrance, I was instantly surrounded
by a dozen of the younger jail-birds, amid a shout
of <q>Ein Zuwachs! Ein Zuwachs!</q> which I was
not long in understanding to be the name given
to the last comer. <q>Was haben sie?</q> (<q>What
has he done?</q>) was the next eager cry. <q>Struck
a Polizerdiener!</q> <q>Ei! das ist gut!</q> was the
hearty exclamation; and I was a favorite immediately.
One dirty, villainous-looking fellow, with
but one eye, and very little light in that, took to
handling my clothes; then inquired if I had any
money <q>up above?</q> Upon my answering in the
affirmative my popularity immediately increased.
They soon made me understand that I could
<q>draw</q> upon the pigeon-hole bank to indulge in
any such luxuries as beer or tobacco.
</p>

<p>
People breakfast early in Vienna; and, as I
had tasted nothing since that meal, I was very
hungry; but I was not to starve; for soon we
heard the groaning of bolts and locks, and the
police-soldier who guarded the door, appeared,
bearing in his hand a red earthen pot, surmounted
by a round flat loaf of bread <q>for the Englishman.</q>
I took my portion with thanks, and found
that the pipkin contained a thick porridge made
of lentils, prepared with meal and fat; in the
midst of which was a piece of fresh boiled beef.
The cake was of a darkish color, but good wholesome
bread. Altogether, the meal was not unsavory.
Many a greedy eye watched me as I sat
on the end of the hard couch, eating my dinner.
One wretched man seeing that I did not eat all,
whispered a proposal to barter his dirty neckerchief&mdash;which
he took off in my presence&mdash;for half
of my loaf. I satisfied his desires, but declined
the recompense. My half-emptied pipkin was
thankfully taken by another man, under the pretense
of <q>cleaning it!</q>
</p>

<p>
One of my fellow-prisoners approached me.
</p>

<p>
<q>It is getting late,</q> said he; <q>do you know
what you have got to do?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You are the <q>Zuwachs</q></q> (latest accession),
<q>and it is your business to empty and clean out
the <q>Kiefel!</q></q> (the sink, &amp;c.)
</p>

<p>
<q>The devil!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But I dare say,</q> he added, carelessly, <q>if
you pay the Vater a <q>mass-bier,</q></q> (something
less than a quart of beer), <q>he will make some
of the boys do it for you.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>With all my heart.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Have you a rug?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You must ask the corporal, at seven o'clock;
but I dare say the Vater will find you one&mdash;for a
<q>mass-bier</q>&mdash;if you ask him.</q>
</p>

<pb n='483'/><anchor id='Pg483'/>

<p>
I saw that a mass-bier would do a great deal
in an Austrian prison.
</p>

<p>
The Vater, who was a prisoner like the rest,
was appealed to. He was a tall, burly-looking
young man, with a frank countenance. He had
quitted his honest calling of butcher, and had
taken to smuggling tobacco into the city. This
was a heavy crime; for the growth, manufacture,
and sale of tobacco, is a strict Imperial
monopoly. Accordingly, his punishment had
been proportionately severe&mdash;two years' imprisonment.
The sentence was now approaching
completion; and, on account of good conduct, he
had received the appointment of Vater to Punishment
Room, No. 1. The benefits were enumerated
to me with open eyes by one of the prisoners&mdash;<q>Double
rations, two rugs, and a mass-bier
a day!</q>
</p>

<p>
The result of my application to the Vater was
the instant calling out of several young lads, who
crouched all day in the darkest end of the room&mdash;a
condemned corner, abounding in vermin; and
I heard no more of the sink, and so forth. The
next day a new-comer occupied my position.
</p>

<p>
At about seven o'clock the bolts were again
withdrawn, the ponderous door opened, and the
corporal&mdash;who seemed to fill the office of ward-inspector&mdash;marched
into the chamber. He was
provided with a small note-book and a pencil, and
made a general inquiry into the wants and complaints
of the prisoners. Several of them asked
for little indulgencies. All these were duly noted
down to be complied with the next day&mdash;always
supposing that the prisoner possessed a small
capital <q>up above.</q> I stepped forward, and
humbly made my request for a rug.
</p>

<p>
<q>You?</q> exclaimed the corporal, eying me
sharply. <q>Oh! you are the Englishman?&mdash;No!</q>
</p>

<p>
I heard some one near me mutter: <q>So;
struck a policeman! No mercy for him from the
other policemen&mdash;any of them.</q>
</p>

<p>
The Vater dared not help me; but two of his
most intimate friends made me lie down between
them; and swaddled in their rugs, I passed the
night miserably. The hard boards, and the vermin,
effectually broke my slumbers.
</p>

<p>
The morning came. The rules of the prison
required that we should all rise at six, roll up the
rugs, lay them at the heads of our beds, and
sweep out the room. Weary and sore, I paced
the prison while these things were done. Even
the morning ablution was comfortless and distressing;
a pocket-handkerchief serving but indifferently
for a towel.
</p>

<p>
Restless activity now took full possession of
the prisoners. There was not the combined
shouting or singing of the previous day; but
there was independent action, which broke out
in various ways. Hunger had roused them; the
prison allowance is one meal a day; and although,
by husbanding the supply, some few might eke
it out into several repasts, the majority had no
such control over their appetite. Tall, gaunt
lads, just starting into men, went roaming about
with wild eyes, purposeless, pipkin in hand, although
hours must elapse before the meal would
come. Caged beasts pace their narrow prisons
with the same uniform and unvarying motion.
</p>

<p>
At last eleven o'clock came. The barred door
opened, and swiftly, yet with a terrible restraint&mdash;knowing
that the least disorder would cost
them a day's dinner&mdash;the prisoners mounted the
stone steps, and passed slowly, in single file, before
two enormous caldrons. A cook, provided
with a long ladle, stood by the side of each; and,
with a dextrous plunge and a twist, a portion of
porridge and a small block of beef were fished up
and dashed into the pipkin extended by each
prisoner. Another official stood ready with the
flat loaves. In a very short time the whole of
the prisoners were served.
</p>

<p>
Hunger seasoned the mess; and I was sitting
on the bedstead-end enjoying it, when the police-soldier
appeared on the threshold, calling me
by name.
</p>

<p>
<q>You must leave&mdash;instantly.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I am ready,</q> I said, starting up.
</p>

<p>
<q>Have you a rug?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No.</q>
</p>

<p>
I hurried out into the dark passage. I was
conducted to the left; another heavy door was
loosened, and I was thrust into a gloomy cell, bewildered,
and almost speechless with alarm. I
was not alone. Some half-dozen melancholy
wretches crouching in one corner, were disturbed
by my entrance, but half an hour had scarcely
elapsed, when the police-soldier again appeared,
and I was hurried out. We proceeded through
the passage by which I had first entered. In my
way past the nest of pigeon-holes <q>up above,</q>
some&mdash;only a few&mdash;of my valuables were restored
to me. Presently a single police-soldier led
me into the open street.
</p>

<p>
The beautiful air and sunshine! how I enjoyed
them as we passed through the heart of the
city. Bei'm Magistrat, at the corner of the Kohlmarket,
was our destination. We entered its porticoed
door, ascended the stone stairs, and went
into a small office, where the most repulsive-looking
official I have any where seen, noted my
arrival in a book. Thence we passed into another
pigeon-holed chamber, where I delivered up my
little property, as before, <q>for its security.</q> A
few minutes more, and I was safely locked in a
small chamber, having one window darkened by
a wooden blind. My companions were a few
boys, a courier&mdash;who, to my surprise, addressed
me in English&mdash;and a man with blazing red hair.
</p>

<p>
In this place, I passed four days, occupied by
what I suppose I may designate <q>my trial.</q> The
first day was enlivened by a violent attack which
the jailer made upon the red-headed man for
looking out of the window. He seized the fiery
locks, and beat their owner's head against the
wall. I had to submit that day to a degrading
medical examination.
</p>

<p>
On the second day I was called to appear before
the <q><foreign rend='italic'>Rath</foreign></q> or council. The process of
examination is curious. It is considered necessary
to the complete elucidation of a case, that
the whole life and parentage of the accused
should be made known; and I was thus exposed
<pb n='484'/><anchor id='Pg484'/>
to a series of questions which I had never anticipated.&mdash;The
names and countries of both my
parents; their station; the ages, names, and
birthplaces of my brothers and sisters; my own
babyhood, education, subsequent behavior, and
adventures; my own account, with the minutest
details, of the offense I had committed. It was
more like a private conference than an examination.
The Rath was alone&mdash;with the exception
of his secretary, who diligently recorded my answers.
While being thus perseveringly catechised,
the Rath sauntered up and down; putting
his interminable questions in a friendly chatty
way, as though he were taking a friendly interest
in my history, rather than pursuing a judicial investigation.
When the examination was concluded,
the secretary read over every word to
me, and I confirmed the report with my signature.
</p>

<p>
The Rath promised to do what he could for
me; and I was then surprised and pleased by
the entrance of my employer. The Rath recommended
him to write to the British Embassy in
my behalf, and allowed him to send me outer
clothing better suited to the interior of a prison
than the best clothes I had donned to spend the
holiday in.
</p>

<p>
I went back to my cell with a lightened heart.
I was, however, a little disconcerted on my return
by the courier, who related an anecdote of
a groom of his acquaintance, who had persisted
in smoking a cigar while passing a sentinel; and
who, in punishment therefor, had been beaten by
a number of soldiers, with willow rods; and
whose yells of pain had been heard far beyond the
prison walls. What an anticipation! Was I to
be similarly served? I thought it rather a suspicious
circumstance that my new friend appeared
to be thoroughly conversant with all the details
(I suspect from personal experience) of the police
and prison system of Vienna. He told me
(but I had no means of testing the correctness of
his information) that there were twenty Ratherrn,
or Councillors; that each had his private chamber,
and was assisted by a confidential secretary;
that every offender underwent a private examination
by the Rath appointed to investigate his
case&mdash;the Rath having the power to call all witnesses,
and to examine them, singly, or otherwise,
as he thought proper; that on every Thursday
the <q>Rathsherrn</q> met in conclave; that each
Rath brought forward the particular cases which
he had investigated, explained all its bearings,
attested his report by documentary evidence
prepared by his secretary, and pronounced his
opinion as to the amount of punishment to be
inflicted. The question was then decided by a
majority.
</p>

<p>
On the third day, I was suddenly summoned
before the Rath, and found myself side by side
with my accuser. He was in private clothes.
</p>

<p>
<q>Herr Tuci,</q> exclaimed the Rath, trying to
pronounce my name, but utterly disguising it,
<q>you have misinformed me. The constable
says he did not <emph>knock</emph> your hat off&mdash;he only
<emph>pulled</emph> it off.</q>
</p>

<p>
I adhered to my statement. The Polizerdiener
nudged my elbow, and whispered, <q>Don't
be alarmed&mdash;it will not go hard with you.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Now, constable,</q> said the Rath; <q>what
harm have you suffered in this affair?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>My uniform is stained with blood.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>From <emph>my</emph> head!</q> I exclaimed.
</p>

<p>
<q>From my nose,</q> interposed the Polizerdiener.
</p>

<p>
<q>In any case it will wash out,</q> said the Rath.
</p>

<p>
<q>And you,</q> he added, turning to me&mdash;<q>are
you willing to indemnify this man for damage
done?</q>
</p>

<p>
I assented; and was then removed.
</p>

<p>
On the following morning I was again summoned
to the Rath's chamber. His secretary&mdash;who
was alone&mdash;met me with smiles and congratulations:
he announced to me the sentence&mdash;four
days' imprisonment. I am afraid I did
not evince that degree of pleasure which was
expected from me; but I thanked him; was removed;
and, in another hour, was reconducted
to Punishment Room, No. 1.
</p>

<p>
The four days of sentence formed the lightest
part of the adventure. My mind was at ease: I
knew the worst. Additions to my old companions
had arrived in the interval. We had an
artist among us, who was allowed, in consideration
of his talents, to retain a sharp cutting implement
fashioned by himself from a flat piece of
steel&mdash;knives and books being, as the most dangerous
objects in prison, rigidly abstracted from
us. He manufactured landscapes in straw, gummed
upon pieces of blackened wood. Straw was
obtained, in a natural state, of green, yellow, and
brown; and these, when required, were converted
into differently-tinted reds, by a few hours
immersion in the Kiefel. He also kneaded bread
in the hand, until it became as hard and as
plastic as clay. This he modeled into snuff
boxes (with strips of rag for hinges, and a piece
of whalebone for a spring), draughts, chess-men,
pipe-bowls, and other articles. When dry, they
became hard and serviceable; and he sold them
among the prisoners and the prison officials. He
obtained thus a number of comforts not afforded
by the prison regulations.
</p>

<p>
On Sunday, I attended the Catholic chapel
attached to the prison&mdash;a damp, unwholesome
cell. I stood among a knot of prisoners, enveloped
in a nauseous vapor; whence arose
musty, mouldy, rotten effluvia which gradually
overpowered my senses. I felt them leaving me,
and tottered toward the door. I was promptly
met by a man who seemed provided for emergencies
of the kind; for, he held a vessel of cold
water; poured some of it into my hands, and directed
me to bathe my temples. I partly recovered;
and, faint and dispirited, staggered
back to the prison. I had not, however, lain
long upon my bed (polished and slippery from
constant use), when the prison guard came to
my side, holding in his hand a smoking basin of
egg soup <q>for the Englishman.</q> It was sent
by the mistress of the kitchen. I received the
offering of a kind heart to a foreigner in trouble,
with a blessing on the donor.
</p>

<pb n='485'/><anchor id='Pg485'/>

<p>
On the following Tuesday, after an imprisonment
of, in all, nine days, during which I had
never slept without my clothes, I was discharged
from the prison. In remembrance of the place,
I brought away with me a straw landscape and a
bread snuff-box, the works of the prison artist.
</p>

<p>
On reaching my lodging I looked into my box.
It was empty.
</p>

<p>
<q>Where are my books and papers?</q> I asked
my landlord.
</p>

<p>
The police had taken them on the day after
my arrest.
</p>

<p>
<q>And my bank-notes?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Here they are!</q> exclaimed my landlord,
triumphantly. <q>I expected the police; I knew
you had money somewhere, so I took the liberty
of searching until I found it. The police made
particular inquiries about your cash, and went
away disappointed, taking the other things with
them.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Would they have appropriated it?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Hem! Very likely&mdash;under pretense of paying
your expenses.</q>
</p>

<p>
On application to the police of the district, I
received the whole of my effects back. One of
my books was detained for about a week; a
member of the police having taken it home to
read, and being as I apprehend, a slow reader.
</p>

<p>
It was a matter of great astonishment, both
to my friends and to the police, that I escaped
with so slight a punishment.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Who Knew Best?</head>

<p>
On the outskirts of the little town of Bernau,
with a garden between it and the road, stands
the house of Master Baptist Heinzelmann, a respectable
citizen and cabinet-maker, or <foreign rend='italic'>Tischlermeister</foreign>,
as the Germans call it, so surrounded
and overshadowed by tall trees and shrubs, that
it reminds you of true contentment, which is always
quiet and retiring where it reigns in the
heart. Nimble vine-branches climb up the walls
and over the roof, so thick and shady, that birds
build their nests among them, and rest every
night under the sheltering leaves. Besides this
there is no other garnishment or decoration to be
seen about the dwelling, although Master Heinzelmann
is in very comfortable circumstances.
As it had come down from his father and grandfather,
so stood the house at the time of our tale;
one story, compact and solid. From the garden
you entered the spacious outer room, the ordinary
play-place of the children, and from that into
the living-room, and from that into the large
workshop, where Master Heinzelmann kept his
ten or a dozen journeymen at work from one
year's end to another, without reckoning the apprentices.
His business flourished greatly, for the
townsfolk preferred to go to him whenever they
had orders to give or purchases to make. His
workmanship was tasteful and durable, and what
was more than all, he overcharged no one, which
pleased people, and on that account they did not
mind the walk to his house, although it was, as
before said, a little off the road, and out of the
way.
</p>

<p>
What the house wanted in grandeur and ornament,
was made up by the contentment and the
gentle and full-hearted happiness which had taken
up their abode within it. Free from cares of
whatever sort, Master Heinzelmann passed his
days in the circle of his family. Providence had
bestowed on him a good-looking, intelligent wife
and three healthy and lively children, on whom
his whole affections hung, and when they assembled
each evening, after the labors of the day,
none looked comelier and happier than they.
At seven o'clock, Master Heinzelmann left off
work, and dismissed his men; the noise of saws,
hammers, and planes ceased, and a peaceful
stillness reigned in the house; and he, having
put on his comfortable in-doors jacket, filled a
pipe, and looked about for his family. In summer,
he found them nearly always in the garden,
or in the outer room, near the open door, from
whence there was a pleasant view over the sweet-scented
flower-beds. His wife welcomed his
coming with a friendly nod and a cheerful smile,
and the children ran to meet him, clung to his
hands, and strove to climb up for a kiss. Such was
Baptist Heinzelmann's daily pleasure, abounding
in all that makes life happy. After lifting
up and embracing his children, he would sit and
listen to their lively prattle, or watch their simple
sports, in which he himself often took a part,
while their mother made ready the evening meal.
When this was over, they went and sat in the pretty
summer-house, and talked about the little occurrences
of the day. There was always something
to relate, concerning the children, or the housekeeping,
or the garden, or of other matters, nor
was there any lack of simple gossip, which, however
insignificant it might seem, yet had a meaning
and an interest for a family bound together
by the strongest ties of love. Father, mother,
children, enjoyed the quiet gladness of a household
into which the noise of the great world without
seldom penetrated. And in what else does
happiness consist, than in gladness and contentment?
He who possesses them needs to ask
for nothing further. Had Master Heinzelmann
always remembered that, he would have saved
himself from much toil and vexation.
</p>

<p>
One fine summer evening the Tischlermeister
left his workshop as usual, put on his lounging-jacket,
lit his pipe, and turned his steps toward
the front room, from whence came the noise of
merry laughter and shouts of fun. Softly he approached
behind the open door which concealed
him from his wife and children, leant himself at
his ease on the lower half, and looked smilingly
down on the frolics of his little ones. The
mother, with the youngest girl on her lap, sat on
the doorstep, while Fritz and Hans crawled about
the floor. They were playing a hundred tricks
with the kitten, which had come into the world
only a few weeks before. Fritz had got a piece
of colored cloth for a plaything, and flung it
across the room, but with a thread cunningly
fastened to it, so that he might pull it back again.
The kitten, according to the manner of young
cats, leaped and seized the lure with comical antics,
<pb n='486'/><anchor id='Pg486'/>
but just as she fancied it was fast between
her paws, came a sudden pull, and away flew
the prize, while she looked after it with ludicrous
astonishment. Then rose bursts of merriment
and shouts of delight, and the mother, glad in
her children's pleasure, laughed with them, and
took care that the old cat should not disturb their
sport by any sudden outbreak of ill-temper.
</p>

<p>
Master Heinzelmann looked on for a little
while, and amused himself, without being seen,
with his children's diversions. All at once, however,
he made a grave face, and said, <q>Enough,
little ones; let the kitten go, and come to supper.
Come, dear wife, it is all ready.</q>
</p>

<p>
As soon as the children heard their father's
voice, they thought no more about the kitten,
but sprang up and ran toward him with merry
faces. But he did not hug and kiss them as he
was accustomed to do; he gave them only a short
salute, and the same to his wife, who came toward
him with her hand held out, and the youngest
child on her arm.
</p>

<p>
<q>Baptist,</q> she said, <q>dear husband, we have
had rare fun this afternoon; you should see how
cleverly Fritz can spring about with the kitten!
But what is the matter? You look angry. Has
any thing happened to vex you?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Not exactly vexatious,</q> replied Heinzelmann,
<q>and yet as I saw you sitting there so pleasantly,
I was a little fretted to think that I had promised
Master Vollbracht to go into town this
evening. I would much rather stay at home with
you.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Go to town, Baptist, to-day?</q> asked Frau
Margaret in astonishment. <q>And what have
you to do there?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, it is about some town affairs,</q> answered
Baptist; <q>I don't myself know rightly what they
are; when Master Vollbracht told me, I did not
altogether understand, but, at all events, I promised
to go for a short hour, so as to be quit of
him. You know well, Margaret, that to speak
truly, the locksmith is no special friend of mine&mdash;he
is too fond of the public-house. Still a
promise is a promise, and I must keep my word;
so let us have supper quickly, for the sooner
there, the sooner shall I be back again.</q>
</p>

<p>
Frau Margaret said nothing, although it could
be seen in her face, that her husband's going out
in the evening was not at all agreeable to her.
She went and got the supper ready, Master Heinzelmann
ate a few mouthfuls hastily, and then
rose up and put on his coat.
</p>

<p>
<q>Good-by, Margaret,</q> he said, <q>good-night,
children! I expect to be at home again soon,
wife.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Go, then,</q> she answered with a cheerful
look, <q>and I will wait for you; but do not stay
too long.</q>
</p>

<p>
Baptist promised, and went. Frau Margaret
felt uneasy as she looked after him. It was the
first evening since their marriage that she had
been left alone in the house. When she heard
the garden gate shut behind her husband, she became
fearful, and pressed her hand over her eyes,
out of which a few tears had forced their way.
Presently, however, she said to herself&mdash;<q>Timid
heart! what matters it if you are left alone for
once? It will not happen often, for he loves
me; yes, and the children too. How can I be
so silly!</q>
</p>

<p>
So she thought, and then put on a cheerful
face, and played and talked to the children, as
though nothing had happened. But that pure
gladness, which leaps from the care-free heart
as a clear spring, was wanting. She sent the
youngsters to bed earlier than usual, and placed
herself at the window, and looked silently forth
into the garden, which the moon, with its pale
light, seemed to have covered with a vail of silver.
Thus she waited for her husband's return.
At ten o'clock she hoped he would come; by-and-by
eleven struck, he was still absent; an
other anxious half-hour passed&mdash;at last he came.
She heard his footsteps still far off, heard the
garden-gate creak, and flew to meet him.
</p>

<p>
<q>So late! you bad man,</q> she cried merrily,
but with a slight reproach in the tone of her voice.
</p>

<p>
<q>I could not do otherwise, dear wife,</q> replied
Baptist, who was visibly a little excited <q>You
should only have been there! They paid me
great honor, and when I was coming away at
ten o'clock, they all cried out for me to stay, that
my opinion had great weight with them, and so,
really I could not leave. But you should have
gone to bed, Margaret.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No; I was not at all tired,</q> answered the
wife. <q>But, now, make haste in; you are heated,
and the cool night air may do you harm.</q>
</p>

<p>
Lovingly she drew him into the house, and
listened patiently to all that he had to tell about
the matters that had been talked over in the
town, and how he had settled and determined
nearly every question, because of his consequence
and station.
</p>

<p>
<q>There's only one thing vexes me,</q> he said
lastly, <q>I was obliged to promise to go again.
Two evenings in the week are fixed on for the
meetings, and as every body was in favor, I
could not well say no. However, it is but two
evenings; the whole history won't last longer.</q>
</p>

<p>
If Frau Margaret was alarmed at the beginning
of the evening, she was now doubly fearful
Her quiet in-door happiness seemed to be all at
once threatened by some great danger. She
trembled to think that her husband could find
pleasure away from home&mdash;away from his children,
and she had the sense to foresee the consequences.
But she remained silent, for she
was too bewildered to find words to express her
apprehensions, and then, she knew that when
her husband had once made a promise, nothing
would lead him to break it. This made her sorrow
the greater, and for the first time since her
marriage, her pillow was wet with tears. She,
however, concealed her sadness from her husband;
she hoped that the good old habits would
rule again, and make him dislike passing his evenings
away from home.
</p>

<p>
Although Frau Margaret was prudent and sensible,
she deceived herself in this matter. Truly
enough, Baptist at first went out for the evening
<pb n='487'/><anchor id='Pg487'/>
unwillingly, and not without a struggle, but gradually
this resistance disappeared, and at last he
longed for the hour which led him among his
companions. He was a man of clear judgment,
knew how to deliver his words neatly, and his
comfortable circumstances gave him a certain
importance, so that, quite naturally, in course of
time he gave the tone to the company, and his
sayings were received as oracles. That flattered
his vanity, which therein got full satisfaction,
and before long, he wondered in secret how he
could have lived so many years in the background,
and had so little to do with the world. The political
and religious questions of the day, about
which he had never before troubled himself, began
to excite his eager attention. He read newspapers,
journals, pamphlets, and became a great
politician&mdash;at least in the eyes of himself and his
companions. The magic circle of his calm and
peaceful happiness was broken. Baptist himself
had done it, but without a foreboding of what he
had destroyed. He fancied himself happier than
ever, and could not see that all his household
joys were blighted.
</p>

<p>
But Margaret saw and felt it. She mourned
in secret; the evenings when she sat at home
alone were sad and sorrowful for her, and at last,
as Baptist left off observing any rule in his outgoing,
but longed more and more to be away
from home, she plucked up a heart, and begged
of him to leave her no more.
</p>

<p>
<q>But why not!</q> rejoined Heinzelmann; <q>we
do nothing wrong. We debate about matters for
the good of the town and of the state. There
must be great changes, Margaret, before things
can be better with us. But, presto, it will come.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, Baptist, what concern have you with the
town and the state?</q> answered Frau Margaret.
<q>Look at your family, that is your town and
state. When you are with it, and fulfill your
duty rightfully, then are you one of the best of
citizens. Consider well: the skin is nearer than
the fleece.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes, wife, but what do you mean by that?</q>
said Baptist, a little angrily. <q>Perhaps I am not
fulfilling my duty?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No longer the same as formerly, dear husband.
Don't take it ill, Baptist, but my heart
and conscience compel me&mdash;I must tell you.
You neglect your business a little. Yesterday,
you know, the town-clerk wanted his coffer; but
you&mdash;you went out at five, and the coffer was not
finished.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Eh, what!</q> cried Baptist, snappishly. <q>I
had business in town&mdash;we were to lay a memorial
before the magistrates about the pavement,
and that could not be done without me; and the
town-clerk can have his coffer to-day.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No, dear husband,</q> replied the wife, <q>he
sent a little while ago to say that he had got one;
and now, you see, the coffer must be kept on hand
unsold.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>The town-clerk is an old fool,</q> continued
Baptist, fretfully. <q>These aristocrats!&mdash;they always
want to ride on the necks of us honest traders.
But patience! Our turn will come someday.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But, dearest husband,</q> said Margaret, soothingly,
<q>the town-clerk has always been very
agreeable and friendly with you, and it is certainly
not his fault, that the coffer was not ready
at the right time. Many go out for wool and
come home shorn. Had you thought more of the
skin than of the fleece, you would have saved
yourself all this trouble. You understand: your
business&mdash;that's the skin; the street paving&mdash;that's
the fleece.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes, I understand well enough what you
mean,</q> rejoined the Tischlermeister, <q>but I understand
it quite otherwise! You, however, do
not understand me: men were meant for general
affairs, for great matters. Their mind stretches
far beyond the narrow circle of housewifery.
Only let me alone, and don't mix yourself up in
things which don't concern you, and which you
don't understand.</q>
</p>

<p>
Frau Margaret saw plainly that her remonstrance
made no impression, and she remained
silent. But her sad and downcast looks spoke
more loudly to the heart of her husband than her
words. Heinzelmann found that her view was
not far wrong, after all, and made an attempt to
withdraw from his companions, and again live a
domestic life. But his attempt failed. Vanity,
and the desire to appear somebody, led him back
again to his crooked ways, and soon they became
worse.
</p>

<p>
The insurrection at Paris broke out&mdash;the Republic
was proclaimed&mdash;and the news of these
events fell on the minds of the German people
like a spark in a barrel of gunpowder. Blow followed
blow, feelings grew hot, and almost every
town had its own revolution. That was something
for Master Baptist Heinzelmann. He was
called to the head of the Democratic party, and
made the leader of a revolutionary club, and
spouted speeches full of fire and flame; the mob
cried hurrah! held up their hands for him&mdash;he
became drunk with triumph&mdash;was chosen town-councilor&mdash;a
great man, as he thought, and leader
of the people. He was near being elected Deputy
to the Diet, and sent as representative to the
Parliament at Berlin. Master Baptist swam in
pleasures&mdash;Frau Margaret swam in tears. Her
husband triumphed&mdash;she sat at home and wept.
Her husband walked proudly about, and looked
radiant with joy&mdash;she was full of mournfulness,
and the feeling of happiness seemed to have disappeared
from her heart forever.
</p>

<p>
Master Heinzelmann appeared to be totally
changed. He troubled himself no longer about
his business, but left every thing to his work
men. Every morning early, he left home to fulfill
his new vocation as leader of the people, and
to labor for their happiness. He saw not that
his own happiness was going to ruin in the meantime.
He used to return home late, worn-out,
weary, and hoarse with much speechifying and
shouting, and ill-tempered into the bargain.
Scarcely had he exchanged a few sulky words
with his poor wife, than he betook himself to
bed. He rarely saw his children: the pleasant
evenings in the front-room had all vanished as a
<pb n='488'/><anchor id='Pg488'/>
dream, and could not be recalled. Instead of
merry laughter, and joyful cries, and glad shoutings,
there was nothing to be heard but the low,
sad sobs of Frau Margaret. Peace and contentment
seemed to have fled from the house, as well
as from the hearts of all its inmates. Yes&mdash;all!
for to confess the truth, Master Baptist Heinzelmann
found, little by little, that although his new
life in the busy current of politics brought plenty
of excitement, it by no means brought contentment;
and instead of making him happy, it laid
upon him rather a burden of cares, vexations,
hardships, and losses of many kinds. At first it
went well enough&mdash;but how went it afterward?
His party, which in truth was not a small one,
listened to him right willingly when he held forth
and displayed his political knowledge, but they
also had no objection to a cool drink now and
then between the fiery speeches. So Master
Baptist, from time to time, in order to keep up
his popularity, was obliged to let a cask of ale go
the rounds, and that was not quite so pleasant to
him as to be listened to with attention, and to
hear the hurrahs when he said something a little
more violent than usual. Besides, there were
other leaders of the people as well as he, who
stood in high favor with the mob, but who had
very little money, while Master Heinzelmann
was well-to-do, and could afford to offer a sacrifice
on the altar of his country, and&mdash;he offered
it. Only, somehow or other, the sacrifice was
wanted so often, and that was not much to the
liking of the Tischlermeister. In the end&mdash;and
that worried him the most&mdash;his journeymen became
refractory all of a sudden. They wished
also to have property of their own, and demanded
higher wages. Baptist Heinzelmann liked
revolutions very well, but not against himself,
and so he told all his hands to go to Jericho, and
for a time his business went to sleep. From this
it happened that orders did not come in quite so
numerously as before, which puzzled Baptist not
a little. He began to turn it over in his mind,
and all at once he bethought himself of what his
good-hearted wife had said to him one day: <q>Remember!
the skin is nearer than the fleece.</q>
Never had the truth of this proverb come before
him so strikingly and forcibly, as now that his
delusions were losing their strength. A singular
and irresistible longing to return once more to
his former tranquil and retired, and yet happy
life, overcame him. What was the selfish love of
the mob, against the pure and true love of wife
and children? a painted bubble in comparison
with a bright and costly jewel. Baptist Heinzelmann
plucked up a heart; toward evening he
left the council-house and went home. No one
was in the garden; it lay there in deep stillness.
He stole down a by-path to his workshop, where
now but three hands were employed out of the
dozen that formerly worked therein, and threw
off his Sunday clothes, put on his dear old comfortable
jacket, his cap on his head, reached down
the clay pipe which had had such a long rest, lit
it, and then went softly through the inner to the
outer room. Wife and children sat, as often before,
on the threshold, not lively as they used to
be, but particularly quiet and downcast&mdash;even
merry Fritz had scarcely a word to say for himself.
The sun was dropping down to his setting,
and cast golden streams of light through
the thick foliage of the vine which enwreathed
the door and window, down upon the clean
boards of the floor. Sweet odors were borne in
on the air from the garden, the birds chirped and
twittered their last evening notes, and peace and
tranquillity reigned around, except in the hearts
which once knew nothing else than joy and contentment.
</p>

<p>
Heinzelmann leant over the door, and for a
time looked at his family in silence. The past
came before his mind as pleasant pictures.
<q>What a fool was I!</q> he said inwardly to himself;
<q>what more blessed happiness can there
be, than the happiness in the circle of one's own
family! What a fool was I, not to see this long
ago: that I could so long be blinded by stupid
vanity and foolish pride! But there is yet time,
and I will not let it escape.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Margaret,</q> he said aloud, and with friendly
voice.
</p>

<p>
<q>Baptist&mdash;is that you? and so early!</q> she
cried, and sprang up; <q>and what do I see? in
the old cap and jacket! Are you not going out
again?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Not to-day, nor to-morrow, nor afterward,</q>
answered he, smiling. <q>With the old dress, I
have found again my old heart. The skin is
nearer than the fleece, my Margaret, my good,
dear wife!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, goodness!</q> she exclaimed, <q>what do
you say? what do I hear? am I not in a dream?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>If you are dreaming that the old contentment
has come back again,</q> replied Baptist, <q>then is
your dream a true one. I have grown wise at
last, Margaret.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Thank God!</q> stammered the Frau; <q>and
instead of handling the pen, you will now work
with the plane&mdash;will you?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes, Margaret, stick to that which I know,
and leave it to others to bungle at politics. In
short, I have given up my post&mdash;I am no longer
town-councilor. I am now only what I was
before&mdash;Tischlermeister Baptist Heinzelmann!
Am I welcome to you as such?</q>
</p>

<p>
With a shriek of delight, Frau Margaret fell
into her husband's open arms. Long and close
was their embrace, and the sense of newly-quickened
joy brought sweet tears from the
wife's heart. The children understood not what
was going on; but they saw that their father
was glad and contented, and they were glad and
contented too. Until late at night, they sat together
in the garden, rejoicing in their new-found
happiness.
</p>

<p>
Baptist became truly the Tischlermeister of
former days, and suffered himself to be no more
drawn into temptation. A burnt child shuns the
fire; and he knew now the difference between
family joys and worldly joys. His late friends
and companions came entreating him to take
part once more in their proceedings, but Baptist
<pb n='489'/><anchor id='Pg489'/>
put them off with a laugh, and answered, <q>Not
so, dear friends&mdash;the skin is nearer than the
fleece! In-doors there, at the work-bench, is my
post. Other people understand politics and government
better than I&mdash;I leave the task to them.</q>
</p>

<p>
The friends and companions tried again two or
three times&mdash;Heinzelmann, however, remained
firm; they gave up and came no more. But the
old customers returned, and the old journeymen
also, who had thought better of their strike&mdash;and
above all, the old joy of tranquil, domestic life.
</p>

<p>
Baptist would not change with any one. And
Frau Margaret?&mdash;only go by the house some day
toward evening, when she is playing with the
children, or sitting with them and her husband
in the garden; then, when you hear her clear,
silvery laugh, then, I can believe, you will no
more ask if she is happy. Such a laugh can
come only from a truly happy heart.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>My First Place.</head>

<p>
My father died before I can remember any
thing. My mother had a hard life; and it
was all that she could do to keep herself and me.
We lived in Birmingham, in a house where there
were many other lodgers. We had only one
room of our own; and, when my mother went
out to work, she locked the door and left me there
by myself. Those were dreary days. When it
was summer, and the bright sun shone in at the
window, I thought of the green fields that I used
to see sometimes on Sundays, and I longed to be
sitting under a shady tree, watching the little
lambs, and all young things that could play about.
When it was winter, I used to sit looking at the
empty grate, and wishing to see the bright blaze
which never came. When mother went away in
the winter mornings, she told me to run about to
warm myself; and, when I was tired and began
to feel cold, to get into the blankets on the bed.
Many long and wearisome hours I passed in those
blankets; listening and listening to every step
upon the stairs, expecting to hear mother's step.
At times I felt very lonely; and fancied, as it began
to grow darker and darker, that I could see large,
strange shapes rising before me; and, though I
might know that it was only my bonnet that I looked
at, or a gown of mother's hanging up behind the
door, or something at the top of the old cupboard,
the things seemed to grow larger and larger, and
I looked and looked till I became so frightened,
that I covered my head with the blanket, and
went on listening for mother's return. What a
joyful sound to me was the sound of the key put
into the door-lock! It gave me courage in an
instant: then I would throw away the blanket;
and, raising my head with a feeling of defiance,
would look round for the things that had frightened
me, as if to say, <q>I don't care for you now.</q>
Mother would light the fire, bring something from
the basket, and cook our supper. She would
then sit and talk to me, and I felt so happy that
I soon forgot all that had gone before.
</p>

<p>
Mother could not always get work. I was
glad then; for those days were the Sundays of
my life; she was at home all day; and although
we often had nothing to eat but bread and potatoes,
she had her tea; and the potatoes always
tasted to me at these times better than they did
on other days. Mother was not a scholar, so
she could not teach me much in that way; but
she taught me how to keep our room clean and
free from dust. I did not know much of other
children; but I had a little cousin about my own
age, who came sometimes on Sundays with my
aunt, and sometimes we went to see them.
</p>

<p>
At last mother was taken ill&mdash;so very ill that
she could not go out to work, and as I could not
do for her all that was wanted to be done, my
aunt came to be with us. Mother became worse
and worse, and the doctor said he did not think
she would ever get better. I heard him say this
to aunt, and he said it in such a way as if he
thought I could not feel; and I do think there
are some people who think that children can not
feel; but I <emph>did</emph> feel it very much. Aunt used to
sit up at nights. I had a little bed made in a
corner of the room on the floor. One night after
I had cried myself to sleep, I started up from a
bad dream about dear mother. At first I could
not remember where I was, not being used to my
strange bed; but, when I did remember, I saw
that the rush-light was just burning out. All
was very quiet. The quietness frightened me.
The light flared for an instant, and then it was
gone; but it showed me my aunt lying on the
floor with her head leaning on the bed; she was
fast asleep. I thought mother was asleep, too,
and I did not dare to speak. Softly creeping
out of bed, I groped my way as well as I could
to mother's side. I listened, but I heard no
sound; I got nearer to her; I could not hear
her breathe; I put out my hand to feel her face;
the face was clammy and almost cold. <q>Mother!
dear mother!</q> I cried. The cry awoke my aunt;
she got a light. Mother was dead.
</p>

<p>
I can not remember what happened for a long
time afterward; for I was very ill, and was taken
to my aunt's house. I was very miserable when
I got better again. I felt quite alone in the
world; for though aunt was kind, her kindness
was not like mother's kindness. Whenever I
could get to be by myself, I used to think of poor
mother; and often in the long, long nights, I
would lie awake thinking about her, fancying
that she was near, saying things to comfort me.
Poor mother!
</p>

<p>
Time passed on, and by degrees I began to
feel happier; for through the interest of a kind
lady&mdash;a Mrs. Jones&mdash;I was got into a school,
where I was kept entirely, and taught not only
reading, writing, arithmetic, and to do needlework;
but was also taught how to do every
branch of household work, so as to qualify me to
be a servant. At the age of sixteen, suitable
places were provided for the girls.
</p>

<p>
I pass over my school-days. They were very
happy ones; but, when I was selected to be the
servant of a lady in London, I was very miserable
at parting from every body that I knew in the
world, and at going among strangers who would
not love me one bit.
</p>

<pb n='490'/><anchor id='Pg490'/>

<p>
It rained heavily on the day I left; and every
thing to be seen out of the window of the railway
train looked dismal and dripping. When I
got to the station, in London, I went into the
waiting-room. I waited a long time: one after
another went away, till at last I was left alone
to watch the pouring rain as it fell faster and
faster. I was beginning to feel very dismal indeed,
when a smartly dressed young woman came
into the waiting-room. At first I thought she
was a lady; she came toward me, <q>Are you the
young person from Birmingham?</q> she said. I
was up in a moment, saying, <q>Yes, ma'am,</q>
courtesying as I spoke. But the minute afterward
I was sorry that I had courtesied; for I
was sure <emph>she</emph> was not my mistress.
</p>

<p>
We were soon in the cab. <q>Well,</q> said my
companion, whom I soon knew to be Maria Wild,
the housemaid, <q>and so you took me to be your
mistress, did you?</q> and she laughed in a disagreeable
way; <q>I shan't forget your humble
courtesy, and I'll try to keep you up to it.</q> The
house at which we stopped was a pretty stone
house, standing at a little distance from the road,
surrounded by a nice garden. I was glad it was
in the country, for the sight of trees and green
fields always called to mind those happy Sundays
when dear mother was alive. But the country
looked very gloomy just then; every thing
seemed as dull as I was.
</p>

<p>
I was chilly and shivering, and glad to creep
to the fire; no one was in the kitchen. The
kettle was boiling: it sounded cheerily, like the
voice of friends I had often heard. The tea-things
were set ready, and every thing around
looked comfortable. By-and-by in came Maria
and another servant&mdash;the cook. She was so
smart! I looked at her timidly. <q>Well!</q> she
said, <q>now for your courtesy.</q> I knew at once
that Maria had been telling her about my mistake.
I looked grave, and felt very uncomfortable;
but I did not courtesy. <q>Come, come,</q> said
she, <q>I'll excuse you to-night; you shall have
some tea to cheer you up a bit. But don't look
so down-hearted, girl; this'll never do; you must
pluck up.</q>
</p>

<p>
Then we sat down. She asked me a great
many questions, all about the place I had come
from; the relations that I had; every thing about
the school; what I had done there; till at last I
was quite tired of answering. Then I asked some
questions in my turn.
</p>

<p>
The family consisted of a master and mistress,
three children (all young), and four servants. My
business, I heard, was the care of the second
drawing-room, to help the nurse till two o'clock,
and after that time to help the cook. I wished
that it had fallen to my chance to have had a
place more decidedly a <emph>one</emph> place than this seemed
to be; but I did not dare to say a word. I was
very much tired, and cook told me that I might
go to bed; for mistress (who was out) would not
return till too late to speak to me that night.
Very glad I was to go. I was to sleep in the
room with the cook and housemaid; but had a
small bed to myself. Tired as I was, I could not
sleep. When they came into the room, they believed
me to be asleep, and they went on talking
for a long time. I wished not to hear what they
said; for though I could not understand half of
it, I was sure that what they talked about was
very wrong. With such companions I felt that
I could never be happy. I longed for morning,
that I might write at once to the matron of my
school and tell her so.
</p>

<p>
But what would the matron say? I knew
well that she would chide me; for in the very
last advice she gave me, she said that I must
expect, when I went into the world, to meet
with evil-speakers and with evil-doers, and that
it must be my constant care to keep myself unspotted
from bad example. I thought of this
over and over again, and determined that, whatever
might happen, I would try to do right. Besides,
I had not seen the nurse yet; she might
be a person that I could like; and in this hope
I went to sleep.
</p>

<p>
When I awoke, the bright sunlight was shining
in through the window; I was alone in the
room, and I was sure that it was very late. I
was dressing hurriedly when the door softly
opened. It was Maria Wild. <q>How soundly
you have slept!</q> she said; <q>I had not the heart
to awake you; but you must make haste now, for
mistress is down, and has asked for you, and we
have finished breakfast.</q> I was not long in following
her. The cook had kept some tea warm
for me; her manner seemed kinder, and I wished
that I could forget what had passed. By-and-by
the parlor bell rang. It was for me; and, with
a beating heart, I prepared to go into the presence
of my first mistress.
</p>

<p>
What a pretty, sweet, gentle lady! and so very
young that I could scarcely believe she could be
my mistress. She spoke to me most gently, hoped
I should prove a good girl; and, without entering
into the nature of my duties, merely said that the
cook and the nurse would put me in the right
way. Dear lady! she was like many other ladies
who marry as soon as they leave school; and
who, without knowing any thing at all about the
management of a house, rush into housekeeping.
</p>

<p>
I wish I could have had all my instructions
from my mistress. As it was, I had three distinct
mistresses; my real one knowing less about
what I did, than either of the others. I was often
very much tempted to peep into the beautiful
books which were lying about the drawing-room
I had the care of. As I dusted them with my
brush, once or twice I could not resist; and, one
morning I opened the prettiest, in which there
were such beautiful engravings, that I turned
them all over till I came to the end. One engraving
seemed so very interesting that I could
not resist reading a little of the story which told
about it. I was standing with the book in one
hand, the dusting brush in the other, forgetting
every thing else, when I was startled by the
sound of my own name. I turned round and
saw my mistress. <q>Fanny!</q> repeated my mistress,
<q>this is very wrong; I do not allow this.</q>
I could not speak, but I felt myself turn very red;
<pb n='491'/><anchor id='Pg491'/>
and I put the book hastily on the table. I did
not try to make any excuse for what I had done.
I was touched by the gentleness with which my
mistress had reproved me.
</p>

<p>
Several weeks passed. I was very miserable,
but I struggled hard to bear all as well as I could.
I was sure that both the nurse and the cook gave
me a great many things to do that they ought to
have done themselves; so that I had very little
rest, and was very tired when night came. I
was certain that I was a restraint on what they
had to say to each other: they were by no means
sure of me; and, when I entered the kitchen unexpectedly,
I knew by their altered tone and
manners that they spoke of something different
to what they had been speaking about before. I
saw many signs pass between them, which they
did not think I saw. Sometimes I knew they
were trying to see how far they might trust me,
and I had a strong wish that they would find out
they <emph>never</emph> would be able to trust me.
</p>

<p>
One day I was cleaning the children's shoes
in a little out-house near the kitchen, when my
mistress came down to give orders for dinner.
The cook did not know I was there. Most of
what was said I could hear very distinctly;
for the kitchen-door was open. <q>Oh! indeed,
ma'am,</q> said the cook, <q>these young girls eat a
great deal; you'd be astonished to see how she
makes away with the puddings.</q>&mdash;<q>Change of
air has given her an appetite, I suppose,</q> said
my mistress.&mdash;<q>Yes, indeed, ma'am; but if it
was an appetite in moderation, I should say nothing
about it; but to see her eat in the way she
does&mdash;why, ma'am, yesterday, besides the pudding
left from the nursery, I had made another
for our dinner, and though Mary and I took only
the least morsel, there was not a bit left.</q>&mdash;<q>Indeed!</q>
said my mistress, and left the kitchen.
</p>

<p>
It was hard work for me to keep quiet. Twice
I went toward the kitchen-door. I felt myself
burn all over with anger; but I was struck dumb
by the falsehoods I had heard. There had been
no pudding for dinner the day before, and having
had a headache, I had eaten no meat; nor could
I have been tempted even by the savory-looking
veal cutlets that the cook had prepared for herself
and Mary. For some time after my mistress
had left the kitchen I remained quite still; indeed,
I was scarcely able to move; then I made
a rush toward the kitchen-door, intending to up-braid
the cook with her wickedness; but again
I checked myself. I waited till I could leave
the out-house and pass up the back stairs without
being seen; then I went into the room where
I slept, threw myself upon my little bed, and
cried bitterly.
</p>

<p>
I was roused by the nurse, who had been
seeking the children's shoes to take the children
out to walk. I washed my eyes, and went out
with them. The baby was a nice chubby little
thing, about seven months old, but he was what
the nurse called <q>lumpish, and had no spring,</q>
so that he was very heavy to carry. When
we went out to walk, the nurse always carried
baby till we got out of sight of the house; then
she gave him to me; and when we returned she
always took him again at the same place. After
taking one turn on the heath <q>promenade,</q> we
went down by the sand-pits, and walking on till
we came to a retired place, the nurse seated herself
near a heather bush, and took a book. My
arms ached so very much that I should have
been glad to sit down too; but she told me to go
on, the other children following me. After I had
walked some distance, baby awoke, and began
to cry. I could not comfort him. The more I
tried, the louder he screamed, and the two little
children, frightened at his screams, began to cry
too. I turned to go back, but we had gone further
than I thought; and the road being irregular,
we had picked our way round many tall
bushes of heather, all looking so much alike&mdash;that
I did not know which way to take. In
great trouble what to do, and scarcely being able
to hold the baby any longer, I shouted <q>Nurse!
nurse!</q> as loud as I could shout; but so great
was the noise made by the screaming of the children,
that my voice could not be heard. Presently,
however, to my great relief, the nurse suddenly
appeared from behind the bush, near which
we were sitting.
</p>

<p>
What a face of rage she had! <q>How dare
you,</q> she said, <q>how dare you go so far?</q>
Then snatching the child from my arms, she
would not hear a word; but as soon as she had
made him and the rest of the children quiet, she
went on abusing me very much indeed.
</p>

<p>
We were still some way from home when the
church clock chimed a quarter to two. Suddenly
the nurse stopped, put her hand into her pocket,
and looked very much frightened. <q>I've left
the book,</q> she said, <q>left it on the bank; run&mdash;run
directly&mdash;make haste&mdash;don't lose a moment,
or it may be gone.</q> I stood still; for I felt
angry at having been scolded so undeservedly.
<q>Go! go this instant!</q> I was too late; the
book was gone! I scarcely dared to go back.
<q>Not find it!</q> said the nurse, when I came up
to her; <q>it must be there; you've done this on
purpose.</q> When we had reached home, she
flung the baby hurriedly into my arms. <q>I'll
go myself,</q> she said.
</p>

<p>
The book I had seen her take out of her pocket
looked very much like one placed on a side-table
in the room of which I had charge, and so great
was my curiosity to know if it really were the
same, that I could not resist going down to see;
so putting the baby (who had begun to cry again)
upon the bed, and telling the little ones to sit still
for a minute, down I went. The book was not
on the table. I was sure that I had dusted and
placed it there that very morning, and I now felt
certain that <emph>that</emph> book was the lost one. The
nurse returned, but without the book. She
seemed very much hurried, and was very cross.
She could not have been more so if the book had
been lost by any fault of mine. She asked me
if I knew the name of it. I told her that I did
not; taking care not to mention my suspicion&mdash;nay,
my certainty&mdash;that it was the very book I
had dusted and placed on the table that morning.
<pb n='492'/><anchor id='Pg492'/>
The next day a great change seemed to have
come over both the nurse and the cook; their
manner was much kinder than ever it had been
before. Neither of them said a cross word; yet
I was almost certain that the nurse had been
telling the cook that I had overheard what she
had said to my mistress. The cause of this
change puzzled me at first, but I soon suspected
that they each wanted to coax me; the one to
say nothing about <q>the large appetite,</q> the other
about the lost book.
</p>

<p>
Since the loss of the book, every time the bell
had rung, my heart leaped as though it would
burst through my body, and I looked anxiously
at Mary Wild when she came into the kitchen
again; but nothing came of all this. One day,
Mary, having a bad fit of toothache, I had to wait
at table. That very afternoon mistress sent to
speak to me; she was sitting in the inner drawing-room.
Strange to say, that much as I had
thought about the book, at that very moment I
had forgotten all about it, and almost started
when mistress said, <q>Fanny, I want to know if
you have misplaced a book that was on that
table: it is nearly a week since I missed it, but
not chancing to want it till now, I forgot to make
inquiry about it.</q> I turned very red. I could
not speak. My mistress looked questioningly
into my face. <q>Do you know where it is,
Fanny?</q> <q>No&mdash;yes&mdash;no, indeed, ma'am, no.</q>
<q>Fanny, Fanny! I am sure you are not speaking
the truth; there is something wrong&mdash;you
<hi rend='italic'>do</hi> know something about it.</q> And she looked
fixedly on my face. I became redder still, but
did not answer. <q>Where is it? what is become
of it?</q> <q>Indeed, I have had nothing to do with
the loss of that book.</q> <q>To do with the <emph>loss?</emph>
Then you allow that you do know that it is lost?
How can you know this without having something
to do with it?</q> <q>Oh! pray, ma'am, pray,
pray ask the nurse.</q> <q>The nurse! what can
she possibly have to do with the loss of that
book?</q> Again I was silent. The bell was
rung, and the nurse ordered to come down. A
glance at her face told me that she knew what
was going on. <q>Nurse,</q> said my mistress,
<q>Fanny asks me to go to you to account for the
loss of a book which has been missing for some
days out of this room. Do you know any thing
about it?</q> <q>I, ma'am!</q> said the nurse, pretending
to be very much surprised. <q>Yet I
can't say that I know nothing about a book that
<emph>was</emph> in this room.</q> Then turning to me&mdash;<q>Did
you not put it back again? you know very well
that I threatened to tell mistress about it; and
I'm very sorry, now, that I did not tell her.</q>
</p>

<p>
The only word I could say was, <q>Nurse!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I am sure, ma'am,</q> said the nurse, <q>I should
have been very sorry to say any thing against
her&mdash;and if you had not found her out, I should
not have told about her. She is but young,
ma'am, and may improve&mdash;but, indeed, ma'am,
never in my life did I see a young girl tell a lie
with such a face of innocence.</q> I was bursting
with shame and vexation. <q>May I speak, ma'am?
Oh! pray hear me&mdash;it was not I: it was <emph>she</emph> who
lost the book. Do let me speak, ma'am; pray
let me tell you&mdash;</q> <q>No, you shall have no inducement
to tell more falsehoods. I fear I shall
be obliged to send you home again; I can not
have any one with my children who tells untruths.</q>
And she pointed to the nurse to open
the door for me. As she was doing so, nurse
said, <q>She told me, ma'am, how you had caught
her reading one morning, when&mdash;</q> Here she
shut me out and herself in.
</p>

<p>
If I had had money enough to take me to Birmingham,
I believe I should not have staid in
the house an hour longer; but how often have I
been thankful that I had not; for, if I had gone
away then, nothing could ever have cleared me
in the eyes of my mistress, and I should have
been disgraced forever.
</p>

<p>
Though I had been five months in my place, I
had written but two letters; one to my aunt, the
other to the matron. I was never allowed a
light to take up-stairs, so that I had no opportunity
of writing there. It was late when the
servants came to bed that night; and, after having
cried a great deal, I was just dropping to
sleep when they came into the room. I did not
sleep long. When I awoke, there was darkness
in the room again, and the servants were snoring.
Then all at once the thought came into my head
that I would get up and write a letter to my aunt.
I slipped on a few things. It was too dark for
me to be able to see any thing in the room, and
I did not know where the candle had been put.
Very much disappointed, I was preparing to get
into bed again, when I remembered the lamp
standing on the centre-table in the inner drawing-room;
that room of which I had the charge.
I opened the door softly, and found my way into
the drawing-room. I flamed up a match, which
gave light long enough for me to find the lamp;
then I flamed up another, and lighted it. The
lamp gave but a dull light; all in the house was
so quiet, and every thing looked so dusky, that I
was frightened, and went on trembling more than
before. There was paper in the case before me,
and there were pens in the inkstand, but I never
thought of using <emph>those</emph>. My own paper and pens
were under the tray of my work-box, and that
was in the kitchen. The lamp was not too large
to be easily carried; so, taking it up with care, I
went into the kitchen. The two cats on the
hearth roused up when I opened the door. One
rushed out and began to mew loudly. How
frightened I was! I waited, hoping the cats
might settle again; but they began mewing
louder than ever, looking up to my face, and
then rubbing themselves against the meat-screen.
I was sure that they smelt something that they
wanted me to give them; so I went toward the
meat-screen to see what it was. There I saw a
hand-basket, and something wrapped up in a
cloth. Pushing the meat-screen cautiously aside,
I lifted the basket out. Within I found a medley
of things that would have puzzled wiser heads
than mine to know how they could come together.
There was a thick slice of uncooked veal, two
sausages, a slice of raw salmon, some green
<pb n='493'/><anchor id='Pg493'/>
pease, and seven new potatoes, half a pot of
raspberry jam, a nutmeg, and half a cucumber.
I did not dare to untie the bundle&mdash;which was
folded up very carefully&mdash;but I could feel bits of
candles, and a basin among the oddments it
seemed to contain. I put the basket quickly
down again. The cats had been mewing about
me all this time. At length I did contrive to
escape. I had reached the drawing-room, placed
the lamp on the table, when I saw the two bits
of burnt matches which I had forgotten to pick
up, and which might have left traces of my wanderings.
There was another bit somewhere. In
my gladness to have remembered this, I moved
the lamp quickly, and in carrying it toward the
floor, I knocked the glass against the edge of the
table; it fell to shivers, and the light was extinguished.
What was to be done? Nothing:
there was nothing to be done but to leave things
just as they were, and to creep into bed again.
</p>

<p>
In the morning I hurried down, fearful lest
any of the servants should chance to go into the
drawing-room before I had picked up the broken
glass. I opened the shutters, and soon found
that the shattered glass was not all the injury
that had been done. There was lamp-oil on the
beautiful carpet! There seemed no end to my
troubles.
</p>

<p>
<q>Broken the lamp-glass!</q> said the cook, as
I passed through the kitchen with the broken
bits of glass; <q>what ever will you do?</q>&mdash;<q>I can
do nothing but tell mistress.</q>&mdash;<q>Then I'll tell
you what to do; take my advice, and deny it.</q>
<q>Deny what?</q>&mdash;<q>Why, that you've broken the
lamp-glass.</q>&mdash;<q>What! tell my mistress a lie?
how can you give me such wicked advice?</q>&mdash;<q>Well;
it's no business of mine,</q> said the
cook; <q>if you won't tell her a lie, I'll tell her
the truth.</q> I determined, however, to speak
first. I could not go about my usual work till I
had spoken to my mistress; and yet, when I
heard the dining-room door open, and knew that
she would be coming up, I ran out of the room,
and went up-stairs; my courage failed me, and
I hardly dared to go down again. From the top
of the stairs I saw her go into the room, and I
saw the cook following her. I expected every
moment to be called. Soon the door opened,
and the cook came out. I heard her say, distinctly,
<q>Indeed, ma'am, I'm afraid she'll turn
out badly; but I've done what I can to make
her confess.</q> At the sound of the opening of
the door, with a sudden determination, I had
rushed down stairs, and was within a few steps
of the room as the cook came out. On seeing
me, she shut the door quickly, and turned quite
red; then, speaking in a voice on purpose for
my mistress to hear, she said, <q>What! have
you been listening?</q> I made no answer; but
went into the room.
</p>

<p>
There was an expression of displeasure on
the face of my mistress as she looked at me.
She asked, <q>How did you break the lamp-glass?
Tell me the truth&mdash;for though I may pardon the
accident, I will not pardon any falsehood about
it.</q>
</p>

<p>
I begged that I might tell her everything, and
that I might begin from the day when I came to
my place. I did so. I told her all, and very
much in the same way that I have just been writing
it now. She listened to me with great attention,
and at parts of what I told her, I could
see her countenance change very much indeed.
When I had done, she said, <q>Fanny, you have
told me that which has shocked me very much.
I can say nothing further to you till I have
spoken to Mr. Morgan; meantime you must be
silent, and go on as usual.</q>
</p>

<p>
Mr. Morgan was at that time from home, and
not expected for some days. Meanwhile, Mrs.
Morgan had missed several bottles of wine from
the cellar. She had a distinct knowledge of
three bottles that were not in their places.
</p>

<p>
The morning after his arrival he did not go to
London as usual. He and my mistress were
talking together in the study for a long time. I
knew well what they were talking about, and so
flurried did I feel, that I could hardly get on with
my work. At length I met mistress as she was
going up-stairs. She said she was coming to bid
me go into the study; and her manner was so
kind that I obeyed her without fear. My master,
too, spoke very kindly to me. I found that
my mistress had written to tell him what had
been passing at home in his absence, and that
he, chancing to be at Dudley, which is only a
short distance from Birmingham, had gone there
to make further inquiry about me; that he had
been at the school, had seen the matron, and had
also seen my aunt. All that he had heard about
me had satisfied him, and convinced him that
what I had told my mistress was nothing but the
truth. <q>Is this your handkerchief, Fanny?</q>
said my master, taking up one from a side table.
<q>Yes, sir, it is,</q> I said, unfolding it, <q>and here
is my name marked; it was given to me by a
favorite little schoolfellow, and I feared I had lost
it.</q>&mdash;<q>Where do you think I found this handkerchief,
Fanny?</q>&mdash;<q>Indeed, sir, I can't tell;
but, thank you, sir, for I am so glad it is found.</q>
<q>I found it in the wine-cellar.</q> I must have
looked very much alarmed, for my mistress said
kindly, <q>Don't look so frightened, Fanny.</q>
My master rang the bell: it was answered by
Mary Wild. <q>Stay here,</q> he said; <q>and, Fanny,
go and tell the nurse to come down.</q> When
the nurse entered, he rang the bell again. No
one came. Indeed, there was no one to come
but the cook; and that not being <emph>her</emph> bell, she
did not think of answering it. <q>Shall I tell her,
sir?</q> said Mary Wild, who, as well as the nurse,
now beginning to suspect something was wrong,
turned very pale. <q>No!</q> said my master, angrily,
<q>no one shall leave the room.</q> Just then
the door opened, and the cook entered. The
plausible smooth face she had put on was gone
in an instant, on seeing what was the state of
things. After a moment's silence, he began
<q>This handkerchief,</q> he said, <q>though marked
with Fanny's name, was not put in the wine-cellar
by her.</q> He looked sternly at the cook&mdash;<q>Silence!</q>
he said, to the cook, when she tried
<pb n='494'/><anchor id='Pg494'/>
to speak. He then went on: <q>If the three bottles
of wine stolen out of the cellar are still in
the house, they <emph>shall</emph> be found&mdash;here is a search
warrant, and at the door is a policeman, ready to
enforce its execution. There is no escape, and
in confession is the best chance of mercy.</q> Mary
Wild looked at the cook. I shall never forget
that woman's face at that moment. She seemed
choking with feelings that she tried to hide, and
uncertain what it would be the best for her to
do; she went at last toward the door, and suddenly
opening it, was rushing out of the room
and up-stairs. <q>Stop!</q> cried my master, following
her.&mdash;<q>I must go,</q> she said, <q>I am ill.
This sudden shock&mdash;to think that I&mdash;that it
should come to this&mdash;to be suspected.</q>&mdash;And
then she screamed, and tried to throw herself
into a fit; but the fit would not come. Mr. Morgan
said, <q>You had better be quiet, and submit
quietly to what you can not escape from.</q>&mdash;<q>I
will,</q> she screamed out; <q>I have nothing to
fear&mdash;I am innocent; only let me go up-stairs;
only let me have a few minutes to&mdash;</q> <q>Not
an instant,</q> said my master. He then opened
the window, and called to the policeman, who
had been waiting in the garden. The boxes of
each of the servants were examined. In the
cook's box were found two of the bottles, besides
many things belonging to my mistress&mdash;cambric
pocket-handkerchiefs, chamber-towels, silk-stockings,
and many other articles, marked with the
names of visitors who had been staying in the
house. Folded up in some crumpled bits of paper,
and put into the sleeve of an old gown, was
a silver fork, that had been lost more than a year
ago, and that mistress had supposed to have been
stolen by the housemaid who had lived there before
Mary Wild came. In the nurse's box were
several things that looked very unlikely to be
her own, but they did not belong to mistress. In
a corner of the nursery cupboard was the third
bottle of wine; that also had been opened. In
Mary Wild's box there was nothing to excite
suspicion.
</p>

<p>
When the examination was over, master gave
the cook in charge to the policeman. The nurse
was told to leave the house within an hour. She
would have had much to say, but master would
not hear her.
</p>

<p>
A month's notice was given to Mary Wild.
I was glad of it; for though I knew that she had
entered into many of the wicked cook's deceptions,
there was a something about her that made
me think she would have been good, if she had
not been under such evil influence. All had
been so sudden, that I almost fancied it had been
a dream. For a few days we went on without
other servants, and I thought things had never
been so comfortable as they were during this
time; but Mary Wild was taken so very ill, that
a doctor was sent for. She became worse and
worse, and I scarcely ever left her. In her delirium
she would talk about things that had passed
between the cook and herself; and though she
did not know what she was saying, I felt sure
that what she said <emph>had been</emph>. A very long time
she was ill; then a sudden change took place:
and she was out of danger. Poor thing! how
quiet, and patient, and sorrowful she was: and
how grateful for every thing that was done for
her! Mistress was so much touched by the
many signs of sorrow Mary had shown, that she
allowed her to remain in her place. Though I
was so young, only just seventeen, my mistress,
knowing that I was fond of the children, trusted
them to my care. She engaged another nurse
for three months to <q>put me in the way.</q> At
the end of that time she sent to the school for
another girl to fill the place which had been
mine. Very great was my delight to find that
she was the one who had been my most favorite
schoolfellow; the very girl who had given me
the handkerchief.
</p>

<p>
The cook was committed for trial; her sentence
was six months' imprisonment. What
became of the nurse I never knew.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Point Of Honor.</head>

<p>
One evening in the autumn of the year 1842.
seven persons, including myself, were sitting
and chatting in a state of hilarious gayety
in front of Seor Arguellas' country-house, a
mile or so out of Santiago de Cuba, in the Eastern
Intendencia of the Queen of the Antilles, and
once its chief capital, when an incident occurred
that as effectually put an extinguisher upon the
noisy mirth as if a bomb-shell had suddenly exploded
at our feet. But first a brief account of
those seven persons, and the cause of their being
so assembled, will be necessary.
</p>

<p>
Three were American merchants&mdash;Southerners
and smart traders, extensively connected with
the commerce of the Colombian archipelago, and
designing to sail on the morrow&mdash;wind and
weather permitting, in the bark <hi rend='italic'>Neptune</hi>, Starkey
master and part owner&mdash;for Morant Bay, Jamaica;
one was a lieutenant in the Spanish artillery, and
nephew of our host; another was a M. Dupont,
a young and rich creole, of mingled French and
Spanish parentage, and the reputed suitor for
the hand of Donna Antonia&mdash;the daughter and
sole heiress of Seor Arguellas, and withal a
graceful and charming maiden of eighteen&mdash;a
ripe age in that precocious clime; the sixth
guest was Captain Starkey, of the <hi rend='italic'>Neptune</hi>, a
gentlemanly, fine-looking English seaman of
about thirty years of age; the seventh and last
was myself, at that time a mere youngster, and
but just recovered from a severe fit of sickness
which a twelvemonth previously had necessitated
my removal from Jamaica to the much more temperate
and equable climate of Cuba, albeit the
two islands are only distant about five degrees
from each other. I was also one of Captain
Starkey's passengers, and so was Seor Arguellas,
who had business to wind up in Kingston.
He was to be accompanied by Seora Arguellas,
Antonia, the young lieutenant, and M. Dupont.
The <hi rend='italic'>Neptune</hi> had brought a cargo of sundries,
consisting of hardware, cottons, <hi rend='italic'>et cetera</hi>, to Cuba,
and was returning about half-laden with goods.
Among these, belonging to the American merchants,
<pb n='495'/><anchor id='Pg495'/>
were a number of barrels of gunpowder,
that had proved unsalable in Cuba, and which,
it was thought, might find a satisfactory market
in Jamaica. There was excellent cabin-accommodation
on board Captain Starkey's vessel, and
as the weather was fine, and the passage promised
to be a brief as well as pleasant one&mdash;the
wind having shifted to the northwest, with the
intention, it seemed, of remaining there for some
time&mdash;we were all, as I have stated, in exceedingly
good-humor, and discussing the intended
trip, Cuban, American, and European politics,
the comparative merits of French and Spanish
wines, and Havanna and Alabama cigars, with
infinite glee and gusto.
</p>

<p>
The evening, too, was deliciously bright and
clear. The breeze, pronounced by Capt. Starkey
to be rising to a five or six knot one at sea, only
sufficiently stirred the rich and odorous vegetation
of the valleys, stretching far away beneath
us, gently to fan the heated faces of the party
with its grateful perfume, and slightly ripple the
winding rivers, rivulets rather, which every where
intersect and irrigate the island, and which were
now glittering with the myriad splendors of the
intensely-lustrous stars that diadem a Cuban
night. Nearly all the guests had drunk very
freely of wine, too much so, indeed; but the
talk, in French, which all could speak tolerably,
did not profane the calm glory of the scene, till
some time after Seora Arguellas and her daughter
had left us. The seor, I should state, was
still detained in town by business which it was
necessary he should dispose of previous to embarking
for Jamaica.
</p>

<p>
<q>Do not go away,</q> said Seora Arguellas, addressing
Captain Starkey, as she rose from her
seat, <q>till I see you again. When you are at
leisure, ring the <foreign rend='italic'>sonnette</foreign> on the table and a servant
will inform me. I wish to speak further with
you relative to the cabin arrangements.</q>
</p>

<p>
Captain Starkey bowed. I had never, I thought,
seen Antonia smile so sweetly; and the two ladies
left us. I do not precisely remember how it came
about, or what first led to it, but it was not very
long before we were all conscious that the conversation
had assumed a disagreeable tone. It
struck me that possibly M. Dupont did not like the
expression of Antonia's face as she courtesied to
Captain Starkey. This, however, would, I think,
have passed off harmlessly, had it not been that
the captain happened to mention, very imprudently,
that he had once served as a midshipman
on board the English slave-squadron. This
fanned M. Dupont's smouldering ill-humor into a
flame, and I gathered from his confused maledictions
that he had suffered in property from the
exertions of that force. The storm of angry
words raged fiercely. The motives of the English
for interfering with the slave-traffic were
denounced with contemptuous bitterness on the
one side, and as warmly and angrily defended
on the other. Finally&mdash;the fact is, they were
both flustered with wine and passion, and scarcely
knew what they said or did&mdash;M. Dupont applied
an epithet to the Queen of England, which
instantly brought a glass of wine full in his face
from the hand of Captain Starkey. They were
all in an instant on their feet, and apparently
sobered, or nearly so, by the unfortunate issue
of the wordy tumult.
</p>

<p>
Captain Starkey was the first to speak. His
flushed and angry features paled suddenly to an
almost deathly white, and he stammered out, <q>I
beg your pardon, M. Dupont. It was wrong&mdash;very
wrong in me to do so, though not inexcusable.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Pardon? <foreign rend='italic'>Mille tonnerres!</foreign></q> shouted Dupont,
who was capering about in an ecstasy of rage,
and wiping his face with his handkerchief. <q>Yes,
a bullet through your head shall pardon you&mdash;nothing
less!</q>
</p>

<p>
Indeed, according to the then notions of Cuban
society, no other alternative save the duello appeared
possible. Lieutenant Arguellas hurried
at once into the house, and speedily returned
with a case of pistols. <q>Let us proceed,</q> he
said, in a quick whisper, <q>to the grove yonder;
we shall be there free from interruption.</q> He
took Dupont's arm, and both turned to move off.
As they did so, Mr. Desmond, the elder of the
American gentlemen, stepped toward Captain
Starkey, who with recovered calmness, and with
his arms folded, was standing by the table,
and said, <q>I am not entirely, my good sir, a
stranger to these affairs, and if I can be of service
I shall&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Thank you, Mr. Desmond,</q> replied the English
captain; <q>but I shall not require your
assistance. Lieutenant Arguellas, you may as
well remain. I am no duelist, and shall not
fight M. Dupont.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>What does he say?</q> exclaimed the lieutenant,
gazing with stupid bewilderment round the
circle. <q>Not fight!</q>
</p>

<p>
The Anglo-Saxon blood, I saw, flushed as hotly
in the veins of the Americans as it did in mine
at this exhibition of the white feather by one of
our race. <q>Not fight, Captain Starkey!</q> said
Mr. Desmond, with grave earnestness, after a
painful pause: <q>you, whose name is in the list
of the British royal navy, say this! You must
be jesting!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I am perfectly serious&mdash;I am opposed to dueling
upon principle.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>A coward upon principle!</q> fairly screamed
Dupont, with mocking fury, and at the same time
shaking his clenched fist at the Englishman.
</p>

<p>
The degrading epithet stung like a serpent.
A gleam of fierce passion broke out of Captain
Starkey's dark eyes, and he made a step toward
Dupont, but resolutely checked himself.
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, it must be borne! I was wrong to
offer you personal violence, although your impertinence
certainly deserved rebuke. Still, I
repeat I will not fight with you.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But you <emph>shall</emph> give my friend satisfaction!</q>
exclaimed Lieutenant Arguellas, who was as
much excited as Dupont; <q>or, by Heaven, I will
post you as a dastard not only throughout this
island but Jamaica!</q>
</p>

<p>
Captain Starkey for all answer to this menace
<pb n='496'/><anchor id='Pg496'/>
coolly rang the <foreign rend='italic'>sonnette</foreign>, and desired the slave
who answered it to inform Seora Arguellas that
he was about to leave, and wished to see her.
</p>

<p>
<q>The brave Englishman is about to place himself
under the protection of your aunt's petticoats,
Alphonso!</q> shouted Dupont, with triumphant
mockery.
</p>

<p>
<q>I almost doubt whether Mr. Starkey is an
Englishman,</q> exclaimed Mr. Desmond, who, as
well as his two friends, was getting pretty much
incensed; <q>but, at all events, as my father and
mother were born and raised in the old country,
if you presume to insinuate that&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
Seora Arguellas at this moment approached,
and the irate American with some difficulty restrained
himself. The lady appeared surprised
at the strange aspect of the company she had so
lately left. She, however, at the request of the
captain, instantly led the way into the house,
leaving the rest of her visitors, as the French say,
<hi rend='italic'>plants l</hi>.
</p>

<p>
Ten minutes afterward we were informed that
Captain Starkey had left the house, after impressing
upon Seora Arguellas that the <hi rend='italic'>Neptune</hi>
would sail the next morning precisely at nine
o'clock. A renewed torrent of rage, contempt,
and scorn broke forth at this announcement, and
a duel at one time seemed inevitable between
Lieutenant Arguellas and Mr. Desmond, the last-named
gentleman manifesting great anxiety to
shoot somebody or other in vindication of his
Anglo-Saxon lineage. This, however, was overruled,
and the party broke up in angry disorder.
</p>

<p>
We were all on board by the appointed time
on the following morning. Captain Starkey received
us with civil indifference, and I noticed
that the elaborate sneers which sat upon the
countenances of Dupont and the lieutenant did
not appear in the slightest degree to ruffle or
affect him; but the averted eye and scornful air
of Donna Antonia as she passed with Seora
Arguellas toward the cabin, drawing her mantilla
tightly round her as she swept by, as if&mdash;so I
perhaps wrongfully interpreted the action&mdash;it
would be soiled by contact with a poltroon, visibly
touched him&mdash;only, however, for a few brief
moments. The expression of pain quickly vanished,
and his countenance was as cold and stern
as before. There was, albeit, it was soon found,
a limit to this, it seemed, contemptuous forbearance.
Dupont, approaching him, gave his
thought audible expression, exclaiming, loud
enough for several of the crew to hear, and looking
steadily in the captain's face: <q><foreign rend='italic'>Lche!</foreign></q>
He would have turned away, but was arrested
by a gripe of steel. <q><foreign rend='italic'>Ecoutez</foreign>, monsieur,</q> said
Captain Starkey: <q>individually, I hold for nothing
whatever you may say; but I am captain
and king in this ship, and I will permit no one
to beard me before the crew, and thereby lessen
my authority over them. Do you presume again
to do so, and I will put you in solitary confinement,
perhaps in irons, till we arrive at Jamaica.</q>
He then threw off his startled auditor, and walked
forward. The passengers, colored as well as
white, were all on board; the anchor, already
apeak, was brought home; the bows of the ship
fell slowly off, and we were in a few moments
running before the wind, though but a faint one,
for Point Morant.
</p>

<p>
No one could be many hours on board the
<hi rend='italic'>Neptune</hi> without being fully satisfied that, however
deficient in dueling courage her captain
might be, he was a thorough seaman, and that
his crew&mdash;about a dozen of as fine fellows as I
have ever seen&mdash;were under the most perfect
discipline and command. The service of the
vessel was carried on as noiselessly and regularly
as on board a ship of war; and a sense of confidence,
that should a tempest or other sea-peril
overtake us, every reliance might be placed in
the professional skill and energy of Captain
Starkey, was soon openly or tacitly acknowledged
by all on board. The weather throughout
happily continued fine, but the wind was light
and variable, so that for several days after
we had sighted the blue mountains of Jamaica,
we scarcely appeared sensibly to diminish the
distance between them and us. At last the
breeze again blew steadily from the northwest,
and we gradually neared Point Morant. We
passed it, and opened up the bay at about two
o'clock in the morning, when the voyage might
be said to be over. This was a great relief to
the cabin-passengers&mdash;far beyond the ordinary
pleasure to land-folk of escaping from the tedium
of confinement on shipboard. There was a constraint
in the behavior of every body that was
exceedingly unpleasant. The captain presided
at table with freezing civility; the conversation,
if such it could be called, was usually restricted
to monosyllables; and we were all very heartily
glad that we had eaten our last dinner in the
<hi rend='italic'>Neptune</hi>. When we doubled Point Morant, all
the passengers except myself were in bed, and a
quarter of an hour afterward Captain Starkey
went below, and was soon busy, I understood,
with papers in his cabin. For my part I was
too excited for sleep, and I continued to pace the
deck fore and aft with Hawkins, the first-mate,
whose watch it was, eagerly observant of the
lights on the well-known shore, that I had left
so many months before with but faint hopes of
ever seeing it again. As I thus gazed landward,
a bright gleam, as of crimson moonlight, shot
across the dark sea, and turning quickly round,
I saw that it was caused by a tall jet of flame
shooting up from the main hatchway, which two
seamen, for some purpose or other, had at the
moment partially opened. In my still weak
state, the terror of the sight&mdash;for the recollection
of the barrels of powder on board flashed instantly
across my mind&mdash;for several moments completely
stunned me, and but that I caught instinctively,
at the rattlings, I should have fallen
prostrate on the deck. A wild outcry of <q>Fire!
fire!</q>&mdash;the most fearful cry that can be heard
at sea&mdash;mingled with and heightened the dizzy
ringing in my brain, and I was barely sufficiently
conscious to discern, amid the runnings to and
fro, and the incoherent exclamations of the crew,
the sinewy, athletic figure of the captain leap up,
<pb n='497'/><anchor id='Pg497'/>
as it were, from the companion-ladder to the
deck, and with his trumpet-voice command immediate
silence, instantly followed by the order
again to batten down the blazing hatchway.
This, with his own assistance, was promptly
effected, and then he disappeared down the forecastle.
The two or three minutes he was gone&mdash;it
could scarcely have been more than that&mdash;seemed
interminable; and so completely did it
appear to be recognized that our fate must depend
upon his judgment and vigor, that not a
word was spoken, nor a finger, I think, moved,
till he reappeared, already scorched and blackened
with the fire, and dragging up what seemed a
dead body in his arms. He threw his burden on
the deck, and passing swiftly to where Hawkins
stood, said in a low, hurried whisper, but audible
to me; <q>Run down and rouse the passengers,
and bring my pistols from the cabin-locker.
Quick! Eternity hangs on the loss of a moment.</q>
Then turning to the startled but attentive
seamen, he said in a rapid but firm voice:
<q>You well know, men, that I would not on any
occasion or for any motive deceive you. Listen,
then, attentively. Yon drunken brute&mdash;he is
Lieutenant Arguellas' servant&mdash;has fired with
his candle the spirits he was stealing, and the
hold is a mass of fire which it is useless to waste
one precious moment in attempting to extinguish.</q>
</p>

<p>
A cry of rage and terror burst from the crew,
and they sprang impulsively toward the boats,
but the captain's authoritative voice at once
arrested their steps. <q>Hear me out, will you?
Hurry and confusion will destroy us all, but with
courage and steadiness every soul on board may
be saved before the flames can reach the powder.
And remember,</q> he added, as he took his pistols
from Hawkins and cocked one of them, <q>that I
will send a bullet after any man who disobeys
me, and I seldom miss my aim. Now, then, to
your work&mdash;steadily, and with a will!</q>
</p>

<p>
It was marvelous to observe the influence his
bold, confident, and commanding bearing and
words had upon the men. The panic-terror
that had seized them gave place to energetic
resolution, and in an incredibly short space of
time the boats were in the water. <q>Well done,
my fine fellows! There is plenty of time, I
again repeat. Four of you</q>&mdash;and he named
them&mdash;<q>remain with me. Three others jump
into each of the large boats, two into the small
one, and bring them round to the landward side
of the ship. A rush would swamp the boats,
and we shall be able to keep only one gangway
clear.</q>
</p>

<p>
The passengers were by this time rushing
upon deck half-clad, and in a state of the wildest
terror, for they all knew there was a large quantity
of gunpowder on board. The instant the
boats touched the starboard side of the bark, the
men, white as well as colored, forced their way
with frenzied eagerness before the women and
children&mdash;careless, apparently, whom they sacrificed
so that they might themselves leap to the
shelter of the boats from the fiery volcano raging
beneath their feet. Captain Starkey, aided by
the four athletic seamen he had selected for the
duty, hurled them fiercely back. <q>Back, back!</q>
he shouted. <q>We must have funeral order here&mdash;first
the women and children, next the old men.
Hand Seora Arguellas along; next the young
lady her daughter: quick!</q>
</p>

<p>
As Donna Antonia, more dead than alive, was
about to be lifted into the boat, a gush of flame
burst up through the main hatchway with the
roar of an explosion; a tumultuous cry burst
from the frenzied passengers, and they jostled
each other with frightful violence in their efforts
to reach the gangway. Dupont forced his way
through the lane of seamen with the energy of a
madman, and pressed so suddenly upon Antonia
that, but for the utmost exertion of the captain's
Herculean strength, she must have been precipitated
into the water.
</p>

<p>
<q>Back, unmanly dastard! back, dog!</q> roared
Captain Starkey, terribly excited by the lady's
danger; and a moment after, seizing Dupont
fiercely by the collar, he added: <q>or if you will,
look there but for a moment,</q> and he pointed
with his pistol-hand to the fins of several sharks
plainly visible in the glaring light at but a few
yards' distance from the ship. <q>Men,</q> he added,
<q>let whoever presses forward out of his turn fall
into the water.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Ay, ay, sir!</q> was the prompt mechanical response.
</p>

<p>
This terrible menace instantly restored order;
the colored women and children were next embarked,
and the boat appeared full.
</p>

<p>
<q>Pull off,</q> was the order: <q>you are deep
enough for safety.</q>
</p>

<p>
A cry, faint as the wail of a child, arose in the
boat. It was heard and understood.
</p>

<p>
<q>Stay one moment; pass along Seor Arguellas.
Now, then, off with you, and be smart!</q>
</p>

<p>
The next boat was quickly loaded; the colored
lads and men, all but one, and the three Americans,
went in her.
</p>

<p>
<q>You are a noble fellow,</q> said Mr. Desmond,
pausing an instant, and catching at the captain's
hand; <q>and I was but a fool to&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Pass on,</q> was the reply: <q>there is no time
to bandy compliments.</q>
</p>

<p>
The order to shove off had passed the captain's
lips when his glance chanced to light upon me,
as I leaned, dumb with terror, just behind him
against the vessel's bulwarks.
</p>

<p>
<q>Hold on a moment!</q> he cried. <q>Here is a
youngster whose weight will not hurt you;</q> and
he fairly lifted me over, and dropped me gently
into the boat, whispering as he did so: <q>Remember
me, Ned, to thy father and mother should
I not see them again.</q>
</p>

<p>
There was now only the small boat, capable
of safely containing but eight persons, and how,
it was whispered among us&mdash;how, in addition to
the two seamen already in her, can she take off
Lieutenant Arguellas, M. Dupont, the remaining
colored man, the four seamen, and Captain Starkey?
They were, however, all speedily embarked
except the captain.
</p>

<pb n='498'/><anchor id='Pg498'/>

<p>
<q>Can she bear another?</q> he asked, and although
his voice was firm as ever, his countenance,
I noticed, was ashy pale, yet full as ever
of unswerving resolution.
</p>

<p>
<q>We must, and will, sir, since it's you; but
we are dangerously overcrowded now, especially
with yon ugly customers swimming round us.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Stay one moment; I can not quit the ship
while there's a living soul on board.</q> He stepped
hastily forward, and presently reappeared at
the gangway with the still senseless body of the
lieutenant's servant in his arms, and dropped it
over the side into the boat. There was a cry of
indignation, but it was of no avail. The boat's
rope the next instant was cast into the water.
<q>Now pull for your lives!</q> The oars, from the
instinct of self-preservation, instantly fell into the
water, and the boat sprang off. Captain Starkey,
now that all except himself were clear of the
burning ship, gazed eagerly with eyes shaded
with his hand in the direction of the shore.
Presently he hailed the headmost boat. <q>We
must have been seen from the shore long ago,
and pilot-boats ought to be coming out, though I
don't see any. If you meet one, bid him be
smart: there may be a chance yet.</q> All this
scene, this long agony, which has taken me so
many words to depict very imperfectly from my
own recollection, and those of others, only lasted,
I was afterward assured by Mr. Desmond,
eight minutes from the embarkation of Seora
Arguellas till the last boat left the ill-fated
<hi rend='italic'>Neptune</hi>.
</p>

<p>
Never shall I forget the frightful sublimity of
the spectacle presented by that flaming ship, the
sole object, save ourselves, discernible amidst the
vast and heaving darkness, if I may use the term,
of the night and ocean, coupled as it was with
the dreadful thought that the heroic man to
whose firmness and presence of mind we all
owed our safety was inevitably doomed to perish.
We had not rowed more than a couple of hundred
yards when the flames, leaping up every where
through the deck, reached the rigging and the
few sails set, presenting a complete outline of
the bark and her tracery of masts and yards
drawn in lines of fire! Captain Starkey, not to
throw away the chance he spoke of, had gone out
to the end of the bowsprit, having first let the jib
and foresail go by the run, and was for a brief
space safe from the flames; but what was this
but a prolongation of the bitterness of death?
</p>

<p>
The boats continued to increase the distance
between them and the blazing ship, amidst a
dead silence broken only by the measured dip of
the oars; and many an eye was turned with intense
anxiety shoreward with the hope of descrying
the expected pilot. At length a distinct
hail&mdash;and I felt my heart stop heating at the
sound&mdash;was heard ahead, lustily responded to by
the seamen's throats, and presently afterward a
swiftly-propelled pilot-boat shot out of the thick
darkness ahead, almost immediately followed by
another.
</p>

<p>
<q>What ship is that?</q> cried a man standing in
the bows of the first boat.
</p>

<p>
<q>The <hi rend='italic'>Neptune</hi>, and that is Captain Starkey on
the bowsprit!</q>
</p>

<p>
I sprang eagerly to my feet, and with all the
force I could exert, shouted: <q>A hundred pounds
for the first boat that reaches the ship!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>That's young Mr. Mainwaring's face and
voice!</q> exclaimed the foremost pilot. <q>Hurra,
then, for the prize!</q> and away both sped with
eager vigor, but unaware certainly of the peril of
the task. In a minute or so another shore-boat
came up, but after asking a few questions, and
seeing how matters stood, remained, and lightened
us of a portion of our living cargoes. We
were all three too deep in the water, the small
boat perilously so.
</p>

<p>
Great God! the terrible suspense we all felt
while this was going forward. I can scarcely
bear, even now, to think about it. I shut my
eyes, and listened with breathless, palpitating excitement
for the explosion that should end all.
It came!&mdash;at least I thought it did, and I sprang
convulsively to my feet. So sensitive was my
brain, partly no doubt from recent sickness as
well as fright, that I had mistaken the sudden
shout of the boats' crews, for the dreaded catastrophe.
The bowsprit, from the end of which a
rope was dangling, was empty! and both pilots,
made aware doubtless of the danger, were pulling
with the eagerness of fear from the ship. The
cheering among us was renewed again and again,
during which I continued to gaze with arrested
breath and fascinated stare at the flaming vessel
and fleeing pilot-boats. Suddenly a pyramid of
flame shot up from the hold of the ship, followed
by a deafening roar. I fell, or was knocked
down, I know not which; the boat rocked as if
caught in a fierce eddy; next came the hiss and
splash of numerous heavy bodies falling from a
great height into the water; and then the blinding
glare and stunning uproar were succeeded
by a soundless silence and a thick darkness, in
which no man could discern his neighbor. The
stillness was broken by a loud, cheerful hail from
one of the pilot-boats: we recognized the voice,
and the simultaneous and ringing shout which
burst from us assured the gallant seaman of our
own safety, and how exultingly we all rejoiced
in his. Half an hour afterward we were safely
landed; and as the ship and cargo had been
specially insured, the only ultimate evil result of
this fearful passage in the lives of the passengers
and crew of the <hi rend='italic'>Neptune</hi> was a heavy loss to the
underwriters.
</p>

<p>
A piece of plate, at the suggestion of Mr. Desmond
and his friends, was subscribed for and
presented to Captain Starkey at a public dinner
given at Kingston in his honor&mdash;a circumstance
that many there will remember. In his speech
on returning thanks for the compliment paid him,
he explained his motive for resolutely declining
to fight a duel with M. Dupont, half-a-dozen versions
of which had got into the newspapers. <q>I
was very early left an orphan,</q> he said, <q>and
was very tenderly reared by a maternal aunt,
Mrs. &mdash;&mdash;.</q> (He mentioned a name with which
hundreds of newspaper readers in England must
<pb n='499'/><anchor id='Pg499'/>
be still familiar). <q>Her husband&mdash;as many here
may be aware&mdash;fell in a duel in the second month
of wedlock. My aunt continued to live dejectedly
on till I had passed my nineteenth year;
and so vivid an impression did the patient sorrow
of her life make on me&mdash;so thoroughly did I
learn to loathe and detest the barbarous practice
that consigned her to a premature grave, that it
scarcely required the solemn promise she obtained
from me, as the last sigh trembled on her lips,
to make me resolve never, under any circumstances,
to fight a duel. As to my behavior
during the unfortunate conflagration of the <hi rend='italic'>Neptune,</hi>
which my friend Mr. Desmond has spoken
of so flatteringly, I can only say that I did no
more than my simple duty in the matter. Both
he and I belong to a maritime race, one of whose
most peremptory maxims it is that the captain
must be the last man to quit or give up his ship.
Besides, I must have been the veriest dastard
alive to have quailed in the presence of&mdash;of&mdash;that
is, in the presence of&mdash;circumstances which&mdash;in
point of fact&mdash;that is&mdash;</q> Here Captain Starkey
blushed and boggled sadly: he was evidently no
orator; but whether it was the sly significance
of Seor Arguellas' countenance, which just then
happened to be turned toward him, or the glance
he threw at the gallery where Seora Arguellas'
grave placidity and Donna Antonia's bright eyes
and blushing cheeks encountered him, that so
completely put him out, I can not say; but he
continued to stammer painfully, although the
company cheered and laughed with great vehemence
and uncommon good-humor, in order to
give him time. He could not recover himself;
and after floundering about through a few
more unintelligible sentences sat down, evidently
very hot and uncomfortable, though amidst a
little hurricane of hearty cheers and hilarious
laughter.
</p>

<p>
I have but a few more words to say. Captain
Starkey has been long settled at the Havanna;
and Donna Antonia has been just as long Mrs.
Starkey. Three little Starkeys have to my
knowledge already come to town, and the captain
is altogether a rich and prosperous man; but
though apparently permanently domiciled in a
foreign country, he is, I am quite satisfied, as
true an Englishman, and as loyal a subject of
Queen Victoria, as when he threw the glass of
wine in the Cuban Creole's face. I don't know
what has become of Dupont; and, to tell the
truth, I don't much care. Lieutenant Arguellas
has attained the rank of major: at least I suppose
he must be the Major Arguellas officially reported
to be slightly wounded in the late Lopez buccaneering
affair. And I also am pretty well now,
thank you!
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Christmas In Germany.</head>

<p>
Christmas-day came&mdash;presents were to
be exchanged. My friend Albert B&mdash;&mdash; and
I were deputed to go to Bremen to make purchases,
the choice thereof being left to our discretion.
This, be it understood, was for the behoof
of some of our gentlemen friends; the ladies
had long been prepared with their offerings, which
almost, in every case, were the work of their own
hands.
</p>

<p>
We started on foot; it was genial frosty
weather. At Oslebshausen, which is half-way,
we rested, and took a glass of wine. Then we
continued our march, and at last caught sight of
the windmill, which marks the entrance to the
town. Breakfast was the first thing to be thought
of, so we went and breakfasted in a house situated
in a street called the <q>Bishop's Needle.</q> Then
we hunted about in various shops, and finally arrived,
not a little laden, at the office of the Lesmona
omnibus. Here we deposited our goods,
and secured our places; after which, as we had
a couple of hours before us, we repaired to Stehely
and Jansen's, the chief caf of Bremen, to
pass the time and read the papers.
</p>

<p>
Toward dusk we reached Lesmona, and our
constituents immediately selected, each according
to his taste, the articles we had brought them.
For my part, as I was that evening a guest at
the house of my friend the pastor, I betook myself
thither with the trifling gifts I had bought
for his children. I was destined to receive in
return presents from them and other members
of his family. How they were exchanged, I
shall presently relate. I begin at the beginning
of the ceremony; for the celebration of Christmas-day
is, indeed, a ceremony in most parts of
Germany.
</p>

<p>
The pastor's house is, when you look at it in
front, a long, low building, with a prodigiously
high thatched roof. If you go to the gable,
however, you will find that there are actually
three stories in it, two being in the said roof.
The middle of the ground floor is occupied by a
large hall, which gives access to all the chambers,
and has a branch leading to one end of the edifice.
At this end there is a door, on passing by which,
you find yourself in the place where the cows,
pigs, and other animals are kept. When I speak
of the other animals, I should except the storks,
who, on their arrival in spring, from Egypt or
elsewhere, find their usual basket-work habitations
about the chimneys all ready to receive
them. One would imagine, by the way, that
they brought from their winter quarters something
like the superstition of the old inhabitants
of the Nile valley, so great is the worship of the
Germans for these birds, and so enthusiastically
is their arrival hailed. No one would ever dare
to murder a stork. A similar protection is extended
to nightingales. The consequense is,
that, being unmolested, the <q>solemn bird of
night</q> becomes very tame. In the suburbs of
Hamburg are numerous villas, and there, in a
friend's garden, I have passed and repassed under
the bough where, within the reach of my arm, a
nightingale was singing. He not only showed
no fear, but, being of a vain character, as nightingales
naturally are, he strained his little throat
the more that he saw I listened to him.
</p>

<p>
But to return to the pastor's house. In the
corner of the hall of which I have spoken, was
the <q>Christmas Tree.</q> Some of those who
<pb n='500'/><anchor id='Pg500'/>
read these sketches may have seen an engraving
of Luther on a Christmas evening, his wife and
children beside him. The tree represented in
that engraving was the exact prototype of the
one I now saw. It was of a species of fir, and
on all its branches were fixed small wax-tapers.
These, at the given hour, were lighted. Immediately,
a procession of the village-school children
entered, and placed themselves in order. Then
the pastor appeared, and after a short prayer
gave out a psalm. He conducted the music himself,
and, as he had for some time been teaching
the young people a little singing, it was much
better than usual, more especially as there were
no braying men to spoil it. The air was that
brave old composition of the great reformer, <hi rend='italic'>Ein
feste Burg ist unser Gott</hi> (<q>A strong tower is
our God</q>). Nothing nobler in psalmody exists.
</p>

<p>
After another short prayer, and a few words
by way of speech, sundry rewards and prizes
were distributed. The greater part of these
were the handiwork of the pastor's family. I
refer, of course, to the useful articles of dress
and other things, which domestic female hands
know how to sew, and knit, and embroider. Many
tracts were distributed. A blessing was pronounced,
and the children withdrew.
</p>

<p>
It was now our turn. The family assembled
in the saloon&mdash;a fine apartment, about thirty feet
in length. A long table, covered with a white
cloth, extended down the centre. At this every
one had his place&mdash;I among the rest. But it
was not for a repast. Each had previously entered
and deposited his or her Christmas boxes
at the part of the table assigned to those to whom
they were offered. We all had thus a little heap.
As the greatest secresy is preserved up to the
moment of the general entry, we had all the
pleasure of a surprise. The curiosity of the
children, and also of those who were not children,
as they examined their gifts was most
amusing. I, for my part, received among other
things the following:&mdash;Sundry articles got up
by the family fingers; a little box, covered with
beads, for holding lucifer-matches; a German toy,
meant to be instructive; a long chain in beads,
intended for the decoration of a pipe. This pipe
was in sugar, and was accompanied by a note in
verse. The note I still have, but the pipe melted
away in the damp of winter. I never could
ascertain to whom I was indebted for this gift.
</p>

<p>
A little later, evening worship was celebrated,
and then we supped. Long that night, after I
had laid my head on my pillow, was I kept awake
by the thoughts raised by the kind, hearty, and
genial character of those with whom I had passed
the evening, and of the good, old-fashioned, hearty
ceremony in which I had participated.
</p>

<p>
Many a merry Christmas to these my friends!
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Miracle Of Life.</head>

<p>
Of all Miracles, the most wonderful is that of
Life&mdash;the common, daily life which we carry
about with us, and which every where surrounds
us. The sun and stars, the blue firmament, day
and night, the tides and seasons, are as nothing
compared with it. Life&mdash;the soul of the world,
but for which creation were not!
</p>

<p>
It is our daily familiarity with Life, which obscures
its wonders from us. We live, yet remember
it not. Other wonders attract our attention,
and excite our surprise; but this, the great wonder
of the world, which includes all others, is
little regarded. We have grown up alongside
of Life, with Life within us and about us; and
there is never any point in our existence, at
which its phenomena arrest our curiosity and attention.
The miracle is hid from us by familiarity,
and we see it not.
</p>

<p>
Fancy the earth without Life!&mdash;its skeleton
ribs of rock and mountain unclothed by verdure,
without soil, without flesh! What a naked, desolate
spectacle,&mdash;and how unlike the beautiful aspect
of external nature in all lands! Nature,
ever-varied and ever-changing&mdash;coming with the
spring, and going to sleep with the winter&mdash;in
constant rotation. The flower springs up, blooms,
withers, and falls, returning to the earth from
whence it sprung, leaving behind it the germs of
future being; for nothing dies; not even Life,
which only gives up one form to assume another.
Organization is traveling in an unending circle.
</p>

<p>
The trees in summer put on their verdure;
they blossom; their fruit ripens&mdash;falls; what the
roots gathered up out of the earth returns to earth
again; the leaves drop one by one, and decay,
resolving themselves into new forms, to enter
into other organizations; the sap flows back to
the trunk; and the forest, wood, field, and brake
compose themselves to their annual winter's
sleep. In spring and summer the birds sang in
the boughs, and tended their young brood; the
whole animal kingdom rejoiced in their full
bounding life; the sun shone warm, and nature
rejoiced in greenness. Winter lays its cold chill
upon this scene; but the same scene comes
round again, and another spring recommences
the same <q>never-ending, still beginning</q> succession
of vital changes. We learn to expect all
this, and become so familiar with it, that it seldom
occurs to us to reflect how much harmony
and adaptation there is in the arrangement&mdash;how
much of beauty and glory there is every where,
above, around, and beneath us.
</p>

<p>
But were it possible to conceive an intelligent
being, abstracted from our humanity, endowed
with the full possession of mind and reason, all
at once set down on the earth's surface&mdash;how
many objects of surpassing interest and wonder
would at once force themselves on his attention.
The verdant earth, covered with its endless profusion
of forms of vegetable life, from the delicate
moss to the oak which survives the revolutions
of centuries; the insect and animal kingdom,
from the gnat which dances in the summer's sunbeams,
up to the higher forms of sentient being;
birds, beasts of endless diversity of form, instinct,
and color; and, above all, Man&mdash;<q>Lord of the
lion heart and eagle eye;</q>&mdash;these would, to such
an intelligence, be a source of almost endless interest.
</p>

<p>
It is life which is the grand glory of the world
<pb n='501'/><anchor id='Pg501'/>
it was the consummation of creative power, at
which the morning stars sang together for joy.
Is not the sun glorious because there are living
eyes to be gladdened by his beams? is not the
fresh air delicious because there are living creatures
to inhale and enjoy it? are not odors fragrant,
and sounds sweet, and colors gorgeous,
because there is the living sensation to appreciate
them? Without Life, what were they all? What
were a Creator himself, without life, intelligence,
understanding, to know and adore Him, and to
trace His finger in the works that He hath made?
</p>

<p>
Boundless variety and perpetual change are
exhibited in the living beings around us. Take
the class of insects alone: of these, not fewer
than 100,000 distinct species are already known
and described; and every day is adding to the
catalogue. Wherever you penetrate, that life
can be sustained, you find living beings to exist;
in the depths of ocean, in the arid desert, or at
the icy polar regions. The air teems with life.
The soil which clothes the earth all round, is
swarming with life, vegetable and animal. Take
a drop of water, and examine it with a microscope:
lo! it is swarming with living creatures.
Within Life, exists other life, until it recedes
before the powers of human vision. The parasitic
animalcule, which preys upon or within the
body of a larger animal, is itself preyed upon by
parasites peculiar to itself. So minute are living
animalcules, that Ehrenberg has computed that
not fewer than five hundred millions can subsist
in a single drop of water, and each of these monads
is endowed with its appropriate organs, possesses
spontaneous power of motion, and enjoys
an independent vitality.
</p>

<p>
In the very ocean deeps, insects, by the labor
of ages, are enabled to construct islands, and lay
the foundations of future continents. The coral
insect is the great architect of the southern ocean.
First a reef is formed; seeds are wafted to it, vegetation
springs up, a verdant island exists; then
man takes possession, and a colony is formed.
</p>

<p>
Dig down into the earth, and from a hundred
yards deep, throw up a portion of soil&mdash;cover it
so that no communication can take place between
that earth and the surrounding air. Soon you
will observe vegetation springing up&mdash;perhaps
new plants, altogether unlike any thing heretofore
grown in that neighborhood. During how
many thousands of years has the vitality of these
seeds been preserved deep in the earth's bosom!
Not less wonderful is the fact stated by Lord
Lindsay, who took from the hand of an Egyptian
mummy a tuber, which must have been wrapped
up there more than 2000 years before. It was
planted, was rained and dewed upon, the sun
shone on it again, and the root grew, bursting
forth and blooming into a beauteous Dahlia!
</p>

<p>
At the North Pole, where you would expect
life to become extinct, the snow is sometimes
found of a bright red color. Examine it by the
microscope, and, lo! it is covered with mushrooms,
growing on the surface of the snow as
their natural abode.
</p>

<p>
A philosopher distills a portion of pure water,
secludes it from the air, and then places it under
the influence of a powerful electric current. Living
beings are stimulated into existence, the <hi rend='italic'>acari
Crossii</hi> appear in numbers! Here we touch on
the borders of a great mystery; but it is not at
all more mysterious than the fact of Life itself.
Philosophers know nothing about it, further than
it <emph>is</emph>. The attempt to discover its cause, inevitably
throws them back upon the Great First Cause.
Philosophy takes refuge in religion.
</p>

<p>
Yet man is never at rest in his speculations as
to causes; and he contrives all manner of theories
to satisfy his demands for them. A favorite theory
nowadays is what is called the Development
theory, which proceeds on the assumption, that
one germ of being was originally planted on the
earth, and that from this germ, by the wondrous
power of Life, all forms of vegetable and animal
life have progressively been developed. Unquestionably,
all living beings are organized on one
grand plan, and the higher forms of living beings,
in the process of their growth, successively pass
through the lower organized forms. Thus, the
human being is successively a monad, an a-vertebrated
animal, an osseous fish, a turtle, a bird, a
ruminant, a mammal, and lastly an infant Man.
Through all these types of organization, Tiedemann
has shown that the brain of man passes.
</p>

<p>
This theory, however, does nothing to explain
the causes of life, or the strikingly diversified,
and yet determinate characters of living beings;
why some so far transcend others in the stages
of development to which they ascend, and how
it is that they stop there&mdash;how it is that animals
succeed each other in right lines, the offspring
inheriting the physical structure and the moral
disposition of their parents, and never, by any
chance, stopping short at any other stage of being&mdash;man,
for instance, never issuing in a lion, a
fish, or a polypus. We can scarcely conceive it
possible that, had merely the Germ of Being
been planted on the earth, and <q>set a-going,</q>
any thing like the beautiful harmony and extra
ordinary adaptation which is every where observable
throughout the animated kingdoms of
Nature, would have been secured. That there
has been a grand plan of organization, on which
all living beings have been formed, seems obvious
enough; but to account for the diversity of being,
by the theory that plants and animals have gradually
advanced from lower to higher stages of
being by an inherent power of self-development,
is at variance with known facts, and is only an
attempt to get rid of one difficulty by creating
another far greater.
</p>

<p>
Chemists are equally at fault, in endeavoring
to unvail the mysterious processes of Life. Before
its power they stand abashed. For Life
controls matter, and to a great extent overrules
its combinations. An organized being is not
held together by ordinary chemical affinity; nor
can chemistry do any thing toward compounding
organized tissues. The principles which enter
into the composition of the organized being are
few, the chief being charcoal and water, but into
what wondrous forms does Life mould these common
<pb n='502'/><anchor id='Pg502'/>
elements! The chemist can tell you what
these elements are, and how they are combined,
when dead; but when living, they resist all his
power of analysis. Rudolphi confesses that
chemistry is able to investigate only the lifeless
remains of organized beings.
</p>

<p>
There are some remarkable facts connected
with Animal Chemistry&mdash;if we may employ the
term&mdash;which show how superior is the principle
of Life to all known methods of synthesis and
analysis. For example, much more carbon or
charcoal is regularly voided from the respiratory
organs alone, of all living beings&mdash;not to speak
of its ejection in many other ways&mdash;than can be
accounted for, as having in any way entered the
system. They also produce and eject much
more nitrogen than they inhale. The mushroom
and mustard plant, though nourished by pure
water containing no nitrogen, give it off abundantly;
the same is the case with zoophytes attached
to rocks at the bottom of the sea; and
reptiles and fishes contain it in abundance, though
living and growing in pure water only. Again,
plants which grow on sand containing not a particle
of lime, are found to contain as much of this
mineral as those which grow in a calcareous soil;
and the bones of animals in New South Wales,
and other districts where not an atom of lime is to
be found in the soil, or in the plants from which
they gather their food, contain the usual proportion
of lime, though it remains an entire mystery
to the chemist where they can have obtained it.
The same fact is observable in the egg-shells of
hens, where lime is produced in quantities for
which the kind of food taken is altogether inadequate
to account: as well as in the enormous
deposits of coral-rock, consisting of almost pure
lime, without any manifest supply of that ingredient.
Chemistry fails to unravel these mysterious
facts; nor can it account for the abundant
production of soda, by plants growing on a soil
containing not an atom of soda in any form: nor
of gold in bezoards; nor of copper in some descriptions
of shell-fish. These extraordinary
facts seem to point to this&mdash;that many, if not
most, of the elements which chemists have set
down as simple, because they have failed to reduce
them further, are in reality compound; and
that what we regard as Elements, do not signify
matters that are undecompoundable, but which
are merely undecompounded by chemical processes.
Life, however, which is superior to human
powers of analysis, resolves and composes
the ultimate atoms of things after methods of its
own, but which to chemists will probably ever
remain involved in mystery.
</p>

<p>
The last mystery of Life is Death. Such is
the economy of living beings, that the very actions
which are subservient to their preservation,
tend to exhaust and destroy them. Each being
has its definite term of life, and on attaining its
acme of perfection, it begins to decay, and at
length ceases to exist. This is alike true of the
insect which perishes within the hour, and of the
octogenarian who falls in a ripe old age. Love
provides for the perpetuation of the species.
<q>We love,</q> says Virey, <q>because we do not live
forever: we purchase love at the expense of our
life.</q> To die, is as characteristic of organized
beings as to live. The one condition is necessary
to the other. Death is the last of life's functions.
And no sooner has the mysterious principle
of vitality departed, than the laws of matter
assert their power over the organized frame.
</p>

<p>
<q>Universal experience teaches us,</q> says Liebig,
<q rend='pre'>that all organized beings, after death, suffer
a change, in consequence of which their
bodies gradually vanish from the surface of the
earth. The mightiest tree, after it is cut down,
disappears, with the exception, perhaps of the
bark, when exposed to the action of the air
for thirty or forty years. Leaves, young twigs,
the straw which is added to the soil as manure,
juicy fruits, &amp;c., disappear much more quickly.
In a still shorter time, animal matters lose their
cohesion; they are dissipated into the air, leaving
only the mineral elements which they had
derived from the soil.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>This grand natural process of the dissolution
of all compounds formed in living organizations,
begins immediately after death, when the manifold
causes no longer act under the influence of
which they were produced. The compounds
formed in the bodies of animals and of plants,
undergo, in the air, and with the aid of moisture,
a series of changes, the last of which are, the
conversion of their carbon into carbonic acid, of
their hydrogen into water, of their nitrogen into
ammonia, of their sulphur into sulphuric acid.
Thus their elements resume the forms in which
they can again serve as food to a new generation
of plants and animals. Those elements which
had been derived from the atmosphere take the
gaseous form and return to the air; those which
the earth had yielded, return to the soil. Death,
followed by the dissolution of the dead generation,
is the source of life for a new one. The
same atom of carbon which, as a constituent of
a muscular fibre in the heart of a man, assists to
propel the blood through his frame, was perhaps
a constituent of the heart of one of his ancestors;
and any atom of nitrogen in our brain has perhaps
been a part of the brain of an Egyptian or
of a negro. As the intellect of the men of this
generation draws the food required for its development
and cultivation from the products of the
intellectual activity of former times, so may the
constituents or elements of the bodies of a former
generation pass into, and become parts of our
own frames.</q>
</p>

<p>
The greatest mystery of all remains. What
of the Spirit&mdash;the Soul? The vital principle
which bound the frame together has been dissolved;
what of the Man, the being of high aspirations,
<q>looking before and after,</q> and whose
<q>thoughts wandered through eternity?</q> The
material elements have not died, but merely assumed
new forms. Does not the spirit of man,
which is ever at enmity with nothingness and
dissolution, live too? Religion in all ages has
dealt with this great mystery, and here we leave
it with confidence in the solution which it offers.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='503'/><anchor id='Pg503'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Personal Sketches And Reminiscences.
By Mary Russell Mitford.<note place='foot'>From <q>Recollections of a Literary Life, or
Books, Places, and People.</q> By Mary Russell Mitford. In press
by Harper and Brothers.</note></head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Recollections Of Childhood.</head>

<p>
Most undoubtedly I was a spoilt child. When
I recollect certain passages of my thrice happy
early life, I can not have the slightest doubt
about the matter, although it contradicts all foregone
conclusions, all nursery and school-room
morality, to say so. But facts are stubborn
things. Spoilt I was. Every body spoilt me,
most of all the person whose power in that way
was greatest, the dear papa himself. Not content
with spoiling me in-doors, he spoilt me out.
How well I remember his carrying me round the
orchard on his shoulder, holding fast my little
three-year-old feet, while the little hands hung
on to his pig-tail, which I called my bridle (those
were days of pig-tails), hung so fast, and tugged
so heartily, that sometimes the ribbon would come
off between my fingers, and send his hair floating,
and the powder flying down his back. That
climax of mischief was the crowning joy of all.
I can hear our shouts of laughter now.
</p>

<p>
Nor were these my only rides. This dear
papa of mine, whose gay and careless temper all
the professional <foreign rend='italic'>etiquette</foreign> of the world could never
tame into the staid gravity proper to a doctor of
medicine, happened to be a capital horseman;
and abandoning the close carriage, which, at that
time, was the regulation conveyance of a physician,
almost wholly to my mother, used to pay
his country visits on a favorite blood-mare, whose
extreme docility and gentleness tempted him,
after certain short trials round our old course, the
orchard, into having a pad constructed, perched
upon which I might occasionally accompany him,
when the weather was favorable, and the distance
not too great. A groom, who had been bred up
in my grandfather's family, always attended us;
and I do think that both Brown Bess and George
liked to have me with them almost as well as my
father did. The old servant proud, as grooms
always are, of a fleet and beautiful horse, was
almost as proud of my horsemanship; for I,
cowardly enough, Heaven knows, in after-years,
was then too young and too ignorant for fear&mdash;if
it could have been possible to have had any
sense of danger when strapped so tightly to my
father's saddle, and inclosed so fondly by his
strong and loving arm. Very delightful were
those rides across the breezy Hampshire downs
on a sunny summer morning; and grieved was
I when a change of residence from a small town
to a large one, and going among strange people
who did not know our ways, put an end to this
perfectly harmless, if somewhat unusual pleasure.
</p>

<p>
But the dear papa was not my only spoiler.
His example was followed, as bad examples are
pretty sure to be, by the rest of the household.
My maid Nancy, for instance, before we left
Hampshire, married a young farmer; and nothing
would serve her but I must be bridesmaid. And
so it was settled.
</p>

<p>
She was married from her own home, about
four miles from our house, and was to go to her
husband's after the ceremony. I remember the
whole scene as if it were yesterday! How my
father took me himself to the church-yard gate,
where the procession was formed, and how I
walked next to the young couple hand-in-hand
with the bridegroom's man, no other than the
village blacksmith, a giant of six-feet-three, who
might have served as a model for Hercules.
Much trouble had he to stoop low enough to
reach down to my hand; and many were the
rustic jokes passed upon the disproportioned
pair, who might fitly have represented Brobdignag
and Liliput. My tall colleague proved,
however, as well-natured as giants commonly
are every where but in fairy tales, and took as
good care of his little partner as if she had been
a proper match for him in age and size.
</p>

<p>
In this order, followed by the parents on both
sides, and a due number of uncles, aunts, and
cousins, we entered the church, where I held the
glove with all the gravity and importance proper
to my office; and so contagious is emotion, and
so accustomed was I to sympathize with Nancy,
that when the bride cried, I could not help crying
for company. But it was a love-match, and
between smiles and blushes Nancy's tears soon
disappeared, and so by the same contagion did
mine. The happy husband helped his pretty
wife into her own chaise-cart, my friend the
blacksmith lifted me in after her, and we drove
gayly to the large, comfortable farm-house where
her future life was to be spent.
</p>

<p>
It was a bright morning in May, and I still
remember when we drove up to the low wall
which parted the front garden from the winding
village road, the mixture of affection and honest
pride which lighted up the face of the owner.
The square, substantial brick house, covered with
a vine, the brick porch garlanded with honey-suckles
and sweet-brier, the espalier apple-trees
on either side the path in full flower, the double
row of thrift with its dull pink bloom, the stocks
and wall-flowers under the window, the huge
barns full of corn, the stacks of all shapes and
sizes in the rick-yard, cows and sheep and pigs
and poultry told a pleasant tale of rural comfort
and rural affluence.
</p>

<p>
The bride was taken to survey her new dominions
by her proud bridegroom, and the blacksmith
finding me, I suppose, easier to carry than
lead, followed close upon their steps with me in
his arms.
</p>

<p>
Nothing could exceed the good-nature of my
country beau; he pointed out bantams and peafowls,
and took me to see a tame lamb, and a tall,
staggering calf, born that morning; but for all
that, I do not think I should have submitted so
quietly to the indignity of being carried, I, who
had ridden thither on Brown Bess, and was at
that instant filling the ostensible place of bridesmaid,
if it had not been for the chastening influence
of a little touch of fear. Entering the
<pb n='504'/><anchor id='Pg504'/>
poultry-yard I had caught sight of a certain
turkey-cock, who erected that circular tail of his,
and swelled out his deep-red comb and gills after
a fashion familiar to that truculent bird, but which
up to the present hour I am far from admiring.
A turkey at Christmas well roasted with bread
sauce, may have his merits; but if I meet him
alive in his feathers, especially when he swells
them out and sticks up his tail, I commonly get
out of his way even now, much more sixty years
ago. So I let the blacksmith carry me.
</p>

<p>
Then we went to the dairy, so fresh and cool
and clean&mdash;glittering with cleanliness! overflowing
with creamy riches! and there I had the
greatest enjoyment of my whole day, the printing
with my own hands a pat of butter, and
putting it up in a little basket covered with a
vine leaf, to take home for the dear mamma's
tea. Then we should have gone to the kitchen,
the back kitchen, the brew-house, the wash-house,
and the rest of the bride's new territories,
but this part of the domicil was literally too hot
to hold us; the cooking of the great wedding
dinner was in full activity, and the bridegroom
himself was forced to retreat before his notable
mother, who had come to superintend all things
for the day.
</p>

<p>
So back we drew to the hall, a large square
brick apartment, with a beam across the ceiling,
a wide yawning chimney, and wooden settles
with backs to them; where many young people
being assembled, and one of them producing a
fiddle, it was agreed to have a country dance
until dinner should be ready, the bride and bridegroom
leading off, and I following with the bridegroom's
man.
</p>

<p>
Oh, the blunders, the confusion, the merriment
of that country dance! No two people attempted
the same figure; few aimed at any figure at all;
each went his own way; many stumbled; some
fell, and every body capered, laughed, and shouted
at once. My partner prudently caught me up in
his arms again, for fear of my being knocked
down and danced over, which, considering some
of the exploits of some of the performers, seemed
by no means impossible, and would have been a
worse catastrophe than an onslaught of the turkey-cock.
</p>

<p>
A summons to dinner put an end to the glee.
Such a dinner! The plenty of Camacho's wedding
was but a type of my Nancy's. Fish from
the great pond, roast beef and Yorkshire pudding,
boiled fowls and a gammon of bacon, a green
goose and a sucking pig, plum puddings, apple
pies, cheese-cakes and custards, formed a part
of the bill of fare, followed by home-brewed beer
and home-made wine, by syllabub, and by wedding
cake. Every body ate enough for four, and
there was four times more than could by any
possibility be eaten. I have always thought it
one of the strongest proofs of sense and kindness
in my pretty maid, that she rescued me from the
terrible hospitality of her mother-in-law, and
gave me back unscathed into my father's hands,
when, about three o'clock, he arrived to reclaim
me.
</p>

<p>
The affluence and abundance of that gala day&mdash;the
great gala of a life-time&mdash;in that Hampshire
farm-house, I have never seen surpassed.
</p>

<p>
This was my first appearance as a bridesmaid.
My next, which took place about a twelvemonth
after, was of a very different description.
</p>

<p>
A first cousin of my father, the daughter of his
uncle and guardian, had, by the death of her
mother's brother, become a wealthy heiress;
and leaving her picturesque old mansion in Northumberland,
Little Harle Tower, a true border
keep overhanging the Warsbeck, for a journey
to what the Northumbrians of that day emphatically
call <q>the South,</q> came after a season in
London to pass some months with us. At our
house she became acquainted with the brother of
a Scotch duke, an Oxford student, who, passing
the long vacation with his mother, had nothing
better to do than to fall in love. Each had what
the other wanted&mdash;the lady money, the gentleman
rank; and as his family were charmed with
the match, and hers had neither the power nor
the wish to oppose it, every thing was arranged
with as little delay as lawyers, jewelers, coach-makers,
and mantua-makers would permit.
</p>

<p>
How the first step in the business, the inevitable
and awful ceremonial of a declaration of love
and a proposal of marriage, was ever brought
about, has always been to me one of the most
unsolvable of mysteries&mdash;an enigma without the
word.
</p>

<p>
Lord Charles, as fine a young man as one
should see in a summer's day, tall, well-made,
with handsome features, fair capacity, excellent
education, and charming temper, had an infirmity
which went nigh to render all these good gifts of
no avail: a shyness, a bashfulness, a timidity
most painful to himself, and distressing to all
about him. It is not uncommon to hear a quiet,
silent man of rank unjustly suspected of pride
and haughtiness; but there could be no such
mistake here&mdash;his shamefacedness was patent to
all men. I myself, a child not five years old, one
day threw him into an agony of blushing, by
running up to his chair in mistake for my papa.
Now I was a shy child, a very shy child, and as
soon as I arrived in front of his lordship, and
found that I had been misled by a resemblance
of dress, by the blue coat and buff waistcoat, I
first of all crept under the table, and then flew to
hide my face in my mother's lap; my poor fellow-sufferer,
too big for one place of refuge, too
old for the other, had nothing for it but to run
away, which, the door being luckily open, he
happily accomplished.
</p>

<p>
That a man with such a temperament, who
could hardly summon courage enough to say,
<q>How d'ye do?</q> should ever have wrought himself
up to the point of putting the great question,
was wonderful enough; that he should have
submitted himself to undergo the ordeal of what
was called in those days a public wedding, was
more wonderful still.
</p>

<p>
Perhaps the very different temper of the lady
may offer some solution to the last of these riddles;
perhaps (I say it in all honor, for there is
<pb n='505'/><anchor id='Pg505'/>
no shame in offering some encouragement to a
bashful suitor) it may assist us in expounding
them both.
</p>

<p>
Of a certainty, my fair cousin was pre-eminently
gifted with those very qualities in which
her lover was deficient. Every thing about her
was prompt and bright, cheerful and self-possessed.
Nearly as tall as himself, and quite as
handsome, it was of the beauty that is called
showy&mdash;a showy face, a showy figure, a showy
complexion. We felt at a glance that those radiant,
well-opened, hazel eyes, had never quailed
before mortal glance, and that that clear, round
cheek, red and white like a daisy, had never been
guilty of a blush in its whole life. Handsome
as she was, it was a figure that looked best in a
riding-habit, and a face that of all head-dresses,
best became a beaver hat; just a face and figure
for a procession; she would not have minded a
coronation: on the contrary, she would have been
enchanted to have been a queen-regent; but, as
a coronation was out of the question, she had no
objection, taking the publicity as a part of the
happiness, to a wedding as grand as the resources
of a country town could make it.
</p>

<p>
So a wedding procession was organized, after
the fashion of Sir Charles Grandison, comprising
the chief members of each family, especially of
the ducal one; an infinite number of brothers,
sisters, nephews, nieces, cousins and clansfolk,
friends and acquaintances, all arranged in different
carriages, according to their rank; ladies,
gentlemen, servants, and horses, decorated with
white and silver favors, in so long a line, that it
extended from Coley Avenue to St. Mary's Church.
The first carriage, a low phaeton, drawn by ponies
led by grooms, containing three children,
two of five and six years old, niece and nephew
of the bridegroom, who, with myself (already a
lady of experience in that line), were to officiate
as bride-maidens and bridegroom's man; the last,
also an open carriage, with only the bride and
my dear papa, who gave her away.
</p>

<p>
How well I recollect the crowd of the street,
the crowd of the church-yard, the crowd of the
church! There was no crying at this wedding
though; no crying, and far fewer smiles.
</p>

<p>
The young couple proceeded to Bath and Clifton
from the church door; and the rest of the
procession returned to our house to eat bridecake,
drink to the health of the new-married pair, and
be merry at their leisure; after which many dispersed,
but the members of the two families and
the more intimate friends remained to dinner;
and in the confusion of preparing to entertain so
large a party, the servants, even those belonging
to the nursery, were engaged in different ways,
and we children, left to our own devices, and
finding nearly the whole house free to our incursions,
betook ourselves to a game at hide-and-seek.
</p>

<p>
Now in honor of the day, and of the grand
part we had filled in the grand ceremony of the
morning, we small people had been arrayed in
white from top to toe, Master Martin in a new
suit of jean, richly braided, his sister and myself
in clear muslin frocks, edged with lace, and long
Persian sashes, the whole width of the silk,
fringed with silver, while all parties, little boy
and little girls, had white beaver hats and heavy
ostrich plumes. We young ladies had, as matter
of course, that instinctive respect for our own
finery which seems an innate principle in womankind;
moreover, we were very good children,
quiet, orderly, and obedient. Master Martin, on
the other hand, our elder by a year, had some
way or other imbibed the contempt at once for
fine clothes and for the authorities of the nursery,
which is not uncommon among his rebellious
sex: so the first time it fell to his lot to hide, he
ensconced himself in the very innermost recesses
of the coal-hole, from which delightful retirement
he was dragged, after a long search, by his own
maid, who had at last awakened from the joys
of gossiping and making believe to help in the
housekeeper's room, to the recollection that Lady
Mary might possibly inquire after her children.
The state of his apparel and of her temper may
be more easily imagined than described. He,
duke's grandson though he were, looked like nothing
better or worse than a chimney-sweeper.
She stormed like a fury. But as all the storming
in the world would not restore the young gentleman
or his bridal suit to their pristine state of
cleanliness, she took wit in her anger and put
him to bed, as a measure partly of punishment,
partly of concealment; the result of which was,
that he, the culprit, thoroughly tired with excitement
and exercise, with play and display, and
well stuffed with dainties to keep him quiet, was
consigned to his comfortable bed, while we, pattern
little girls, had to undergo the penalty of
making our appearance and our courtesies in the
drawing-room, among all the fine folks of <emph>our</emph>
Camacho's wedding, and to stay there, weariest
of the many weary, two or three hours beyond
our accustomed time. With so little justice are
the rewards and punishments of this world distributed&mdash;even
in the nursery!
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Married Poets.&mdash;Elizabeth Barrett Browning&mdash;Robert
Browning.</head>

<p>
Married poets! Charming words are these,
significant of congenial gifts, congenial labor,
congenial tastes;&mdash;quick and sweet resources
of mind and of heart, a long future of happiness,
live in those two words. And the reality is as
rare as it is charming. Married authors we have
had of all ages and of all countries; from the
Daciers, standing stiff and stately under their
learning, as if it were a load, down to the Guizots,
whose story is so pretty, that it would sound like
a romance to all who did not know how often
romance looks pale beside reality; from the ducal
pair of Newcastle, walking stately and stiff under
their strawberry-leafed coronets, to William
and Mary Howitt, ornaments of a sect to whom
coronets are an abomination. Married authors
have been plentiful as blackberries, but married
poets have been rare indeed! The last instance,
too, was rather a warning than an example.
When Caroline Bowles changed her own loved
and honored name to become the wife of the
<pb n='506'/><anchor id='Pg506'/>
great and good man Robert Southey, all seemed
to promise fairly, but a slow and fatal disease
had seized him even before the wedding-day, and
darkened around him to the hour of his death.
In the pair of whom I am now to speak, the very
reverse of this sad destiny has happily befallen,
and the health of the bride, which seemed gone
forever, has revived under the influence of the
climate of Italy, of new scenes, new duties, a
new and untried felicity.
</p>

<p>
Elizabeth Barrett Browning is too dear to me
as a friend to be spoken of merely as a poetess.
Indeed such is the influence of her manners, her
conversation, her temper, her thousand sweet
and attaching qualities, that they who know her
best are apt to lose sight altogether of her learning
and of her genius, and to think of her only
as the most charming person that they have ever
met. But she is known to so few, and the peculiar
characteristics of her writings, their purity,
their tenderness, their piety, and their intense
feeling of humanity and of womanhood, have won
for her the love of so many, that it will gratify
them without, I trust, infringing on the sacredness
of private intercourse to speak of her not
wholly as a poetess, but a little as a woman.
When in listening to the nightingale, we try to
catch a glimpse of the shy songster, we are moved
by a deeper feeling than curiosity.
</p>

<p>
My first acquaintance with Elizabeth Barrett
commenced about fifteen years ago. She was
certainly one of the most interesting persons that
I had ever seen. Every body who then saw her
said the same; so that it is not merely the impression
of my partiality, or my enthusiasm. Of
a slight, delicate figure, with a shower of dark
curls falling on either side of a most expressive
face, large tender eyes richly fringed by dark eye-lashes,
a smile like a sun-beam, and such a look
of youthfulness, that I had some difficulty in persuading
a friend, in whose carriage we went together
to Chiswick, that the translatress of the
<q>Prometheus</q> of schylus, the authoress of
the <q>Essay on Mind,</q> was old enough to be
introduced into company, in technical language,
was <emph>out</emph>. Through the kindness of another invaluable
friend, to whom I owe many obligations,
but none so great as this, I saw much of her
during my stay in town. We met so constantly
and so familiarly that, in spite of the difference of
age, intimacy ripened into friendship, and after
my return into the country, we corresponded
freely and frequently, her letters being just what
letters ought to be&mdash;her own talk put upon paper.
</p>

<p>
The next year was a painful one to herself
and to all who loved her. She broke a blood-vessel
upon the lungs, which did not heal. If
there had been consumption in the family that
disease would have intervened. There were no
seeds of the fatal English malady in her constitution,
and she escaped. Still, however, the vessel
did not heal, and after attending her for above
a twelvemonth at her father's house in Wimpole-street,
Dr. Chambers, on the approach of winter,
ordered her to a milder climate. Her eldest brother,
a brother in heart and in talent worthy of
such a sister, together with other devoted relatives,
accompanied her to Torquay, and <emph>there</emph> occurred
the fatal event which saddened her bloom
of youth, and gave a deeper hue of thought and
feeling, especially of devotional feeling, to her
poetry. I have so often been asked what could
be the shadow that had passed over that young
heart, that now that time has softened the first
agony it seems to me right that the world should
hear the story of an accident in which there was
much sorrow, but no blame.
</p>

<p>
Nearly a twelvemonth had passed, and the invalid,
still attended by her affectionate companions,
had derived much benefit from the mild sea
breezes of Devonshire. One fine summer morning
her favorite brother, together with two other
fine young men, his friends, embarked on board
a small sailing-vessel, for a trip of a few hours.
Excellent sailors all, and familiar with the coast,
they sent back the boatmen, and undertook themselves
the management of the little craft. Danger
was not dreamt of by any one; after the
catastrophe, no one could divine the cause, but
in a few minutes after their embarkation, and in
sight of their very windows, just as they were
crossing the bar, the boat went down, and all
who were in her perished. Even the bodies were
never found. I was told by a party who was
traveling that year in Devonshire and Cornwall,
that it was most affecting to see on the corner
houses of every village street, on every church-door,
and almost on every cliff for miles and miles
along the coast, handbills, offering large rewards
for linens cast ashore marked with the initials of
the beloved dead; for it so chanced that all the
three were of the dearest and the best; one, I believe,
an only son, the other the son of a widow.
</p>

<p>
This tragedy nearly killed Elizabeth Barrett.
She was utterly prostrated by the horror and the
grief, and by a natural but a most unjust feeling,
that she had been in some sort the cause of this
great misery. It was not until the following
year that she could be removed in an invalid carriage,
and by journeys of twenty miles a day, to
her afflicted family and her London home. The
house that she occupied at Torquay had been
chosen as one of the most sheltered in the place.
It stood at the bottom of the cliffs, almost close
to the sea; and she told me herself, that during
that whole winter the sound of the waves rang
in her ears like the moans of one dying. Still
she clung to literature and to Greek; in all probability
she would have died without that wholesome
diversion to her thoughts. Her medical
attendant did not always understand this. To
prevent the remonstrances of her friendly physician,
Dr. Barry, she caused a small edition of
Plato to be so bound as to resemble a novel. He
did not know, skillful and kind though he were,
that to her such books were not an arduous and
painful study, but a consolation and a delight.
</p>

<p>
Returned to London, she began the life which
she continued for so many years, confined to one
large and commodious but darkened chamber
admitting only her own affectionate family and a
few devoted friends (I, myself, have often joyfully
<pb n='507'/><anchor id='Pg507'/>
traveled five-and-forty miles to see her, and
returned the same evening, without entering another
house); reading almost every book worth
reading in almost every language, and giving
herself, heart and soul, to that poetry of which
she seemed born to be the priestess.
</p>

<p>
Gradually her health improved. About four
years ago she married Mr. Browning, and immediately
accompanied him to Pisa. They then
settled at Florence; and this summer I have had
the exquisite pleasure of seeing her once more
in London, with a lovely boy at her knee, almost
as well as ever, and telling tales of Italian rambles,
of losing herself in chestnut forests, and
scrambling on mule-back up the sources of extinct
volcanoes. May Heaven continue to her
such health and such happiness!
</p>

<p>
The same visit to London that brought me acquainted
with my beloved friend, Elizabeth Barrett,
first gave me a sight of Mr. Browning. It
was at a period that forms an epoch in the annals
of the modern drama&mdash;the first representation
of <q>Ion.</q>
</p>

<p>
I had the honor and pleasure of being the inmate
of Mr. and Mrs. Serjeant Talfourd (my accomplished
friend has since worthily changed his
professional title&mdash;but his higher title of poet is
indelible), having been, I believe, among the first
who had seen that fine play in manuscript. The
dinner party consisted merely of Mr. Wordsworth,
Mr. Landor, and I think Mr. Forster. By a singular
coincidence it was our host's birthday, and
no one present can forget the triumph of the
evening&mdash;a triumph of no common order as regarded
the number, the quality, or the enthusiasm
of the audience; the boxes being crammed
to the ceiling, and the pit filled, as in an elder
day, with critics and gentlemen.
</p>

<p>
A large party followed the poet home to supper,
a party comprising distinguished persons of
almost every class; lawyers, authors, actors,
artists, all were mingled around that splendid
board; healths were drunk and speeches spoken,
and it fell to the lot of the young author of
<q>Paracelsus</q> to respond to the toast of <q>The
Poets of England.</q> That he performed this task
with grace and modesty, and that he looked still
younger than he was, I well remember; but we
were not introduced, and I knew him only by
those successive works which redeemed the
pledge that <q>Paracelsus</q> had given, until this
very summer, when going to London purposely
to meet my beloved friend, I was by her presented
to her husband. Ah! I hope it will not be
fifteen years before we look each other in the
face again!
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Incidents Of A Visit At The House Of William
Cobbett.</head>

<p>
The name of Blamire has always a certain interest
for me, in consequence of a circumstance,
which, as it took place somewhere about five-and-forty
years ago, and has reference to a flirtation
of twenty years previous, there can not now be
much harm in relating.
</p>

<p>
Being with my father and mother on a visit
about six miles from Southampton, we were invited
by a gentleman of the neighborhood to
meet the wife and daughters of a certain Dr.
Blamire. <q>An old friend of yours and mine,</q>
quoth our inviter to my father. <q>Don't you remember
how you used to flirt with the fair lady
when you and Babington were at Haslar? Faith,
if Blamire had not taken pity on her, it would
have gone hard with the poor damsel! However,
he made up to the disconsolate maiden,
and she got over it. Nothing like a new love for
chasing away an old one. You must dine with
us to-morrow. I shall like to see the meeting.</q>
</p>

<p>
My father did not attempt to deny the matter.
Men never do. He laughed, as all that wicked
sex do laugh at such sins twenty years after, and
professed that he should be very glad to shake
hands with his old acquaintance. So the next
day we met.
</p>

<p>
I was a little curious to see how my own dear
mother, my mamma that was, and the stranger
lady, my mamma that might have been, would
bear themselves on the occasion. At first, my
dear mother, an exceedingly ladylike, quiet person,
had considerably the advantage, being prepared
for the <foreign rend='italic'>recontre</foreign> and perfectly calm and
composed; while Mrs. Blamire, taken, I suspect,
by surprise, was a good deal startled and flustered.
This state of things, however, did not last.
Mrs. Blamire having got over the first shock,
comported herself like what she evidently was, a
practiced woman of the world&mdash;would talk to no
one but ourselves&mdash;and seemed resolved not only
to make friends with her successful rival, but to
strike up an intimacy. This by no means entered
into my mother's calculations. As the one
advanced the other receded, and, keeping always
within the limits of civility, I never heard so much
easy chat put aside with so many cool and stately
monosyllables in my life.
</p>

<p>
The most diverting part of this scene, very
amusing to a stander-by, was, that my father,
the only real culprit, was the only person who
throughout maintained the appearance and demeanor
of the most unconscious innocence. He
complimented Mrs. Blamire on her daughters
(two very fine girls)&mdash;inquired after his old friend,
the Doctor, who was attending his patients in a
distant town&mdash;and laughed and talked over bygone
stories with the one lady, just as if he had
not jilted her&mdash;and played the kind and attentive
husband to the other, just as if he had never
made love to any body except his own dear
wife.
</p>

<p>
It was one of the strange domestic comedies
which are happening around us every day, if we
were but aware of them, and might probably have
ended in a renewal of acquaintance between the
two families but for a dispute that occurred toward
the end of the evening between Mrs. Blamire
and the friend in whose house we were
staying, which made the lady resolve against
accepting his hospitable invitations, and I half
suspect hurried her off a day or two before her
time.
</p>

<p>
This host of ours was a very celebrated person&mdash;no
other than William Cobbett. Sporting,
<pb n='508'/><anchor id='Pg508'/>
not politics, had brought about our present visit
and subsequent intimacy. We had become acquainted
with Mr. Cobbett two or three years
before, at this very house, where we were now
dining to meet Mrs. Blamire. Then my father,
a great sportsman, had met him while on a coursing
expedition near Alton&mdash;had given him a grayhound
that he had fallen in love with&mdash;had invited
him to attend another coursing meeting
near our own house in Berkshire&mdash;and finally,
we were now, in the early autumn, with all manner
of pointers, and setters, and grayhounds, and
spaniels, shooting ponies, and gun-cases, paying
the return visit to him.
</p>

<p>
He had at that time a large house at Botley,
with a lawn and gardens sweeping down to the
Bursledon River, which divided his (Mr. Cobbett's)
territories from the beautiful grounds of
the old friend where we had been originally staying,
the great squire of the place. His own
house&mdash;large, high, massive, red, and square,
and perched on a considerable eminence&mdash;always
struck me as not being unlike its proprietor. It
was filled at that time almost to overflowing.
Lord Cochrane was there, then in the very height
of his warlike fame, and as unlike the common
notion of a warrior as could be. A gentle, quiet,
mild young man, was this burner of French fleets
and cutter-out of Spanish vessels, as one should
see in a summer day. He lay about under the
trees reading Selden on the Dominion of the
Seas, and letting the children (and children always
know with whom they may take liberties)
play all sorts of tricks with him at their pleasure.
His ship's surgeon was also a visitor, and a young
midshipman, and sometimes an elderly lieutenant,
and a Newfoundland dog; fine sailor-like
creatures all. Then there was a very learned
clergyman, a great friend of Mr. Gifford, of the
<q>Quarterly,</q> with his wife and daughter&mdash;exceedingly
clever persons. Two literary gentlemen
from London and ourselves completed the
actual party; but there was a large fluctuating
series of guests for the hour, or guests for the
day, of almost all ranks and descriptions, from
the earl and his countess to the farmer and his
dame. The house had room for all, and the
hearts of the owners would have had room for
three times the number
</p>

<p>
I never saw hospitality more genuine, more
simple, or more thoroughly successful in the
great end of hospitality, the putting every body
completely at ease. There was not the slightest
attempt at finery, or display, or gentility. They
called it a farm-house, and every thing was in
accordance with the largest idea of a great English
yeoman of the old time. Every thing was
excellent&mdash;every thing abundant&mdash;all served with
the greatest nicety by trim waiting damsels; and
every thing went on with such quiet regularity
that of the large circle of guests not one could
find himself in the way. I need not say a word
more in praise of the good wife, very lately dead,
to whom this admirable order was mainly due.
She was a sweet, motherly woman, realizing our
notion of one of Scott's most charming characters,
<hi rend='italic'>Ailie Dinmont</hi>, in her simplicity, her kindness,
and her devotion to her husband and her
children.
</p>

<p>
At this time William Cobbett was at the height
of his political reputation; but of politics we
heard little, and should, I think, have heard nothing,
but for an occasional red-hot patriot, who
would introduce the subject, which our host
would fain put aside, and get rid of as speedily
as possible. There was something of <hi rend='italic'>Dandie
Dinmont</hi> about him, with his unfailing good-humor
and good spirits&mdash;his heartiness&mdash;his love
of field sports, and his liking for a foray. He
was a tall, stout man, fair, and sun-burnt, with
a bright smile, and an air compounded of the
soldier and the farmer, to which his habit of
wearing an eternal red waistcoat contributed not
a little. He was, I think, the most athletic and
vigorous person that I have ever known. Nothing
could tire him. At home in the morning
he would begin his active day by mowing his
own lawn, beating his gardener, Robinson, the
best mower, except himself, in the parish, at
that fatiguing work.
</p>

<p>
For early rising, indeed, he had an absolute
passion, and some of the poetry that we trace
in his writings, whenever he speaks of scenery
or of rural objects, broke out in his method of
training his children into his own matutinal habits.
The boy who was first down stairs was
called the lark for the day, and had, among other
indulgences, the pretty privilege of making his
mother's nosegay, and that of any lady visitors.
Nor was this the only trace of poetical feeling
that he displayed. Whenever he described a
place, were it only to say where such a covey
lay, or such a hare was found sitting, you could
see it, so graphic&mdash;so vivid&mdash;so true was the
picture. He showed the same taste in the purchase
of his beautiful farm at Botley, Fairthorn;
even in the pretty name. To be sure, he did
not give the name, but I always thought that it
unconsciously influenced his choice in the purchase.
The beauty of the situation certainly
did. The fields lay along the Bursledon River,
and might have been shown to a foreigner as a
specimen of the richest and loveliest English
scenery. In the cultivation of his garden, too,
he displayed the same taste. Few persons excelled
him in the management of vegetables,
fruit, and flowers. His green Indian corn&mdash;his
Carolina beans&mdash;his water-melons, could hardly
have been exceeded at New York. His wall-fruit
was equally splendid, and much as flowers
have been studied since that day, I never saw a
more glowing or a more fragrant autumn garden
than that at Botley, with its pyramids of
hollyhocks, and its masses of china-asters, of
cloves, of mignonnette, and of variegated geranium.
The chances of life soon parted us, as,
without grave faults on either side, people do
lose sight of one another; but I shall always
look back with pleasure and regret to that visit.
</p>

<p>
While we were there, a grand display of English
games, especially of single-stick and wrestling,
took place under Mr. Cobbett's auspices.
<pb n='509'/><anchor id='Pg509'/>
Players came from all parts of the country&mdash;the
south, the west, and the north&mdash;to contend for
fame and glory, and also, I believe, for a well-filled
purse; and this exhibition which&mdash;quite
forgetting the precedent set by a certain princess,
<foreign rend='italic'>de jure</foreign>, called Rosalind, and another princess,
<foreign rend='italic'>de facto</foreign>, called Celia&mdash;she termed barbarous, was
the cause of his quarrel with my mamma that
might have been, Mrs. Blamire.
</p>

<p>
In my life I never saw two people in a greater
passion. Each was thoroughly persuaded of
being in the right, either would have gone to the
stake upon it, and of course the longer they argued
the more determined became their conviction.
They said all manner of uncivil things;
they called each other very unpretty names; she
got very near to saying, <q>Sir, you're a savage;</q>
he did say, <q>Ma'am, you're a fine lady;</q> they
talked, both at once, until they could talk no
longer, and I have always considered it as one
of the greatest pieces of Christian forgiveness
that I ever met with, when Mr. Cobbett, after
they had both rather cooled down a little, invited
Mrs. Blamire to dine at his house the next day.
She, less charitable, declined the invitation, and
we parted.
</p>

<p>
As I have said, my father and he had too
much of the hearty English character in common
not to be great friends; I myself was
somewhat of a favorite (I think because of my
love for poetry, though he always said not), and
I shall never forget the earnestness with which
he congratulated us both on our escape from
such a wife and such a mother. <q>She'd have
been the death of you!</q> quoth he, and he believed
it. Doubtless, she, when we were gone,
spoke quite as ill of him, and believed it also.
Nevertheless, excellent persons were they both;
only they had quarreled about the propriety or
the impropriety of a bout at single-stick! Such
a thing is anger!
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>A Reminiscence Of The French Emigration.</head>

<p>
In my childhood I knew many of the numerous
colony which took refuge in London from the
horrors of the First French Revolution. The
lady at whose school I was educated, and he was
so much the more efficient partner that it was his
school rather than hers, had married a Frenchman,
who had been secretary to the Comte de
Moustiers, one of the last embassadors, if not the
very last, from Louis Seize to the Court of St.
James's. Of course he knew many emigrants of
the highest rank, and indeed of all ranks; and
being a lively, kind-hearted man, with a liberal
hand, and a social temper, it was his delight to
assemble as many as he could of his poor countrymen
and countrywomen around his hospitable
supper-table.
</p>

<p>
Something wonderful and admirable it was
to see how these dukes and duchesses, marshals
and marquises, chevaliers and bishops, bore
up under their unparalleled reverses! How
they laughed and talked, and squabbled, and
flirted, constant to their high heels, their rouge,
and their furbelows, to their old liaisons, their
polished sarcasms, their cherished rivalries! They
clung even to their <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>marriages de convenance</foreign>,
and the very habits which would most have offended
our English notions, if we had seen them
in their splendid htels of the Faubourg St. Germain,
won tolerance and pardon when mixed up
with such unaffected constancy, and such cheerful
resignation.
</p>

<p>
For the most part these noble exiles had a
trifling pecuniary dependency; some had brought
with them jewels enough to sustain them in their
simple lodgings in Knightsbridge or Pentonville,
to some a faithful steward contrived to forward
the produce of some estate too small to have been
seized by the early plunderers; to others a rich
English friend would claim the privilege of returning
the kindness and hospitality of by-gone
years. But very many lived literally on the produce
of their own industry, the gentlemen teaching
languages, music, fencing, dancing, while
their wives and daughters went out as teachers
or governesses, or supplied the shops with those
objects of taste in millinery or artificial flowers
for which their country is unrivaled. No one
was ashamed of these exertions; no one was
proud of them. So perfect and so honest was
the simplicity with which they entered upon this
new course of life, that they did not even seem
conscious of its merit. The hope of better days
carried them gayly along, and the present evil
was lost in the sunshiny future.
</p>

<p>
Here and there, however, the distress was too
real, too pressing to be forgotten; in such cases
our good schoolmaster used to contrive all possible
measures to assist and to relieve. One
venerable couple I remember well. They bore
one of the highest names of Brittany, and had
possessed large estates, had lost their two sons,
and were now in their old age, their sickness,
and their helplessness, almost entirely dependent
upon the labor of Mdlle. Rose, their
grand-daughter. Rose&mdash;what a name for that
pallid, drooping creature, whose dark eyes looked
too large for her face, whose bones seemed starting
through her skin, and whose black hair contrasted
even fearfully with the wan complexion
from which every tinge of healthful color had
long flown!
</p>

<p>
For some time these interesting persons regularly
attended our worthy governess's supper-parties,
the objects of universal affection
and respect. Each seemed to come for the
sake of the other; Mademoiselle, always bringing
with her some ingenious straw-plaiting to
make into the fancy bonnets which were then in
vogue, rarely raised her head from her work, or
allowed herself time to make a hasty meal. It
was sad to think how ceaseless must be the industry
by which that fair and fragile creature
could support the helpless couple who were cast
upon her duty and her affection! At last they
ceased to appear at the Wednesday parties, and
very soon after (Oh! it is the poor that help the
poor!) we heard that the good Abb Calonne
(brother to the well-known minister) had undertaken
for a moderate stipend the charge of the
venerable count and countess, while Mdlle. Rose,
<pb n='510'/><anchor id='Pg510'/>
with her straw-plaiting, took up her abode in our
school-room, working as indefatigably through
our verbs and over our exercises as she had
before done through the rattle of the tric-trac
table and the ceaseless clatter of French talk.
</p>

<p>
Now this school of ours was no worse than
other schools; indeed it was reckoned among
the best conducted, but some way or other the
foul weed called exclusiveness had sprung up
among the half dozen great girls who, fifty years
ago, <q>gave our little senate laws,</q> to a point
that threatened to choke and destroy every plant
of a more wholesome influence. Doubtless, long,
long ago the world and the world's trials, prosperity
with the weariness and the bitterness it
brings, adversity with the joys it takes away,
have tamed those proud hearts! But, at the
time of which I speak, no committee of countesses
deciding upon petitions for vouchers for a subscription
ball; no chapter of noble canonesses
examining into the sixteen quarters required for
their candidate; could by possibility inquire more
seriously into the nice questions of station, position,
and alliance than the unfledged younglings
who constituted our first class. They were
merely gentlemen's daughters, and had no earthly
right to give themselves airs; but I suspect
that we may sometimes see in elder gentlewomen
the same disproportion, and that those
who might, from birth, fortune, and position assume
such a right, will be the very last to exert
their privilege. Luckily for me I was a little
girl, protected by my youth and insignificance
from the danger of a contagion which it requires
a good deal of moral courage to resist. I remember
wondering how Mdlle. Rose, with her
incessant industry, her open desire to sell her
bonnets, and her shabby cotton gown, would escape
from our censors. Happily she was spared,
avowedly because her birth was noble&mdash;perhaps
because, with all their vulgar denunciations of
vulgarity, their fineries, and their vanities, the
young girls were better than they knew, and
respected in their hearts the very humility which
they denounced.
</p>

<p>
If, however, there was something about the
fair Frenchwoman that held in awe the spirit of
girlish impertinence, chance soon bestowed upon
them, in the shape of a new pupil, an object
which called forth all their worst qualities, without
stint and without impediment.
</p>

<p>
The poor child who was destined to become
their victim, was a short, squat figure, somewhere
about nine or ten years of age; awkward
in her carriage, plain in her features, ill-dressed
and over-dressed. She happened to arrive at
the same time with the French dancing-master,
a marquis of the <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>ancien rgime</foreign>, of whom I am
sorry to say, that he seemed so at home in his
Terpsichorean vocation, that no one could hardly fancy him
fit for any other. (Were not <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>les marquis</foreign>
of the old French comedy very much like
dancing-masters? I am sure Molire thought so.)
At the same time with the French dancing-master
did our new fellow-pupil arrive, led into the
room by her father; he did not stay five minutes,
but that time was long enough to strike Monsieur
with a horror evinced by a series of shrugs which
soon rendered the dislike reciprocal. I never
saw such a contrast between two men. The
Frenchman was slim, and long, and pale; and
allowing always for the dancing-master air, which
in my secret soul I thought never could be allowed
for, he might be called elegant. The Englishman
was the beau ideal of a John Bull, portentous
in size, broad, and red of visage; loud
of tongue, and heavy in step; he shook the room
as he strode, and made the walls echo when he
spoke. I rather liked the man, there was so
much character about him, and in spite of the
coarseness, so much that was bold and hearty.
Monsieur shrugged to be sure, but he seemed
likely to run away, especially when the stranger's
first words conveyed an injunction to the lady of
the house <q>to take care that no grinning Frenchman
had the ordering of his Betsy's feet. If
she must learn to dance, let her be taught by an
honest Englishman.</q> After which declaration,
kissing the little girl very tenderly, the astounding
papa took his departure.
</p>

<p>
Poor Betsy! there she sat, the tears trickling
down her cheeks, little comforted by the kind
notice of the governess and the English teacher,
and apparently insensible to the silent scorn of
her new companions. For my own part, I entertained
toward her much of that pity which results
from recent experience of the same sort of
distress&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<q>A fellow feeling makes us wondrous kind.</q>
</quote>

<p>
I was a little girl myself, abundantly shy and
awkward, and I had not forgotten the heart-tug
of leaving home, and the terrible loneliness of
the first day at school. Moreover, I suspected
that in one respect, she was much more an object
of compassion than myself; I believed her
to be motherless; so when I thought nobody
was looking or listening, I made some girlish
advances toward acquaintanceship, which she
was still too shy or too miserable to return, so
that, easily repelled myself, as a bashful child
is, our intercourse came to nothing. With my
elders and betters, the <foreign rend='italic'>cancan</foreign>, who ruled the
school, Betsy stood if possible lower than ever.
They had had the satisfaction to discover not
only that he lived in the Borough, but that her
father (horror of horrors!) was an eminent cheese-factor!&mdash;a
seller of Stilton! That he was very
rich, and had a brother an alderman, rather made
matters worse. Poor Betsy only escaped being
sent to Coventry by the lucky circumstance of
her going that metaphorical journey of her own
accord, and never under any temptation speaking
to any body one unnecessary word.
</p>

<p>
As far as her lessons went she was, from the
false indulgence with which she had been treated,
very backward for her age. Our school was,
however, really excellent as a place of instruction:
so no studies were forced upon her, and
she was left to get acquainted with the house
and its ways, and to fall into the ranks as she
could.
</p>

<p>
For the present she seemed to have attached
<pb n='511'/><anchor id='Pg511'/>
herself to Mdlle. Rose, attracted probably by the
sweetness of her countenance, her sadness, and
her silence. Her speech could not have attracted
Betsy, for in common with many of her exiled
country-folk, she had not in nearly ten years'
residence in England learned to speak five English
words. But something had won her affection.
She had on first being called by the governess,
from the dark corner in which she had
ensconced herself, crept to the side of the young
Frenchwoman, had watched her as she wove her
straw plaits, had attempted the simple art with
some discarded straws that lay scattered upon
the floor; and when Mademoiselle so far roused
herself as to show her the proper way, and to
furnish her with the material, she soon became
a most efficient assistant in this branch of industry.
</p>

<p>
No intercourse took place between them. Indeed,
as I have said, none was possible, since
neither knew a word of the other's language.
Betsy was silence personified; and poor Mdlle.
Rose, always pensive and reserved, was now
more than ever dejected and oppressed. An
opportunity of returning to France had opened
to her, and was passing away. She herself was
too young to be included in the list of emigrants,
and interest had been made with the French
Consul for the re-admission of her venerable parents,
and perhaps for the ultimate recovery of
some property still unsold. But her grandfather
was so aged, and her grandmother so sickly, that
the expenses of a voyage and a journey, then
very formidable to the old and the infirm, were
beyond her means, beyond even her hopes. So
she sighed over her straw-plaiting, and submitted.
</p>

<p>
In the mean time the second Saturday arrived,
and with it a summons home to Betsy, who, for
the first time gathering courage to address our
good governess, asked <q>if she might be trusted
with the bonnet Mdlle. Rose had just finished,
to show her aunt&mdash;she knew she would like to
buy that bonnet, because Mademoiselle had been
so good as to let her assist in plaiting it.</q> How
she came to know that they were for sale nobody
could tell; but our kind governess ordered the
bonnet to be put into the carriage, told her the
price&mdash;(no extravagant one!)&mdash;called her a good
child, and took leave of her till Monday.
</p>

<p>
Two hours after Betsy and her father re-appeared
in the school-room. <q>Ma'amselle,</q> said
he, bawling as loud as he could, with the view,
as we afterward conjectured, of making her understand
him. <q>Ma'amselle, I've no great love
for the French, whom I take to be our natural
enemies. But you're a good young woman;
you've been kind to my Betsy, and have taught
her how to make your fallals; and moreover
you're a good daughter: and so's my Betsy.
She says that she thinks you're fretting, because
you can't manage to take your grandfather and
grandmother back to France again;&mdash;so as you
let her help you in that other handy-work, why
you must let her help you in this.</q> Then throwing
a heavy purse into her lap, catching his little
daughter up in his arms, and hugging her to the
honest breast where she hid her tears and her
blushes, he departed, leaving poor Mdlle. Rose
too much bewildered to speak or to comprehend
the happiness that had fallen upon her, and the
whole school the better for the lesson.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Dream Of The Weary Heart.</head>

<p>
The Weary Heart lay restlessly on his bed,
distracted with the strife of the day. Wearied
indeed was he in heart, and wavering in the
simple faith which had blessed his childhood.
The world was no more beautiful to him, his
fellow-man was no more trustworthy, and heaven
was no longer regarded as his distant, though
native home. One thing only seemed, to his
changed heart, the same; it was the ever-varying,
ever-constant moon, which shed her broad,
fair light as serenely on his aching brow as when
he nestled, a happy child, upon his mother's
breast.
</p>

<p>
Soothed by this pure light, the Weary Heart
slept at length; and in his sleep, his troubled
and toil-worn mind went back&mdash;back to the early
hours of life&mdash;back to the lone old house, so
loved in childhood, so seldom thought of now.
In this old home all seemed yet unchanged, and
he would fain have busied himself in tracing out
memories of the past; but a low sweet voice
bade him gaze steadfastly on the lozenge panes
of the long lattice window, where the sun of the
early spring-tide was shining gayly through the
mazy branches of the old elm-tree, and bordering
its traceries with glimpses of purple and
golden light. But gradually, and even as he
looked, the sun became brighter and hotter, and
as his heat momentarily strengthened, Weary
Heart saw the green leaves creep out, one by
one, and place themselves daily between the window
and the sun, so as to intercept his fiercest
rays; until at length, when the sun had attained
his greatest power, these leaves were all
arranged so as to shade the window, as a bird
overshadows her young; and the room was as
much refreshed by the cool green light, as it
had formerly been gladdened by the spring-tide
beams. Then Weary Heart was softened; yet
he feared to breathe, lest the dread winter-time
should come, when the cool leaves which brought
balm to his heart, should fall away from him and
die.
</p>

<p>
Gradually, however, the sun became lower in
the heavens, and his heat was less fervid upon
the earth. Then the leaves went noiselessly
away, in the same order in which they had come.
One by one, they crept silently out of sight, like
earnest hearts whose mission is fulfilled; and
yet so glad were they for the consciousness of
the good which they had been given power to
do, that when the Weary Heart observed them
more closely, he could see how bright a glow of
joy decked even their dying moments, and in
how frolicsome a dance many of them delighted
ere they lay down on the cold earth to die.
</p>

<p>
The dark winter had now come on, and anxiously
poor Weary Heart watched the lozenged
<pb n='512'/><anchor id='Pg512'/>
panes. He saw the branches stand up bare and
desolate against the gray and chilly sky; but
soon he saw beautiful things come and sport
upon them. The snow piled itself in fairy ridgeways
along the boughs, and even on the slenderest
twigs; then the sun would shine brightly out
for an hour at mid-day, and melt the quiet snow,
and the laughing drops would chase each other
along the branches, sometimes losing all identity,
each in the bosom of its fellow&mdash;sometimes falling
in glittering showers to the ground. [And
he saw that it was from these glittering showers
that the snowdrops sprang]. Then, when the
sun was gone down, the frost would come; and
in the morning the silver drops would be found,
spell-bound in their mirth; some hanging in
long, clear pendants, full of bright lights and
beautiful thoughts, far above the rest&mdash;and
others, shorter and less brilliant, with one part
transparent, and another part looking more like
the snow of which they were born. But these
last always hung hand-in-hand. And when the
sun came out again by day, these were always
the last to disappear; for they also were like
faithful and kindly hearts. They were partly
raised far above their original nature, and yet
they still bore many traces of the source from
whence they sprang. And when the beautiful
crystals faded away like the brilliant yet chilly
mind, which has no sympathy or trust for its
fellows, the others would still remain, hand-in-hand,
to cheer and deck the naked tree.
</p>

<p>
Sometimes, too, in the early days of February,
the sun would shine fiercely out ere the green
leaves had come to shade the room at noon-day;
but then came a winged messenger to sit on the
dry branches, and to tell the Weary Heart, in a
sweet song, that the real spring was not <emph>yet</emph>
upon the earth; but that at the right time the
leaves would most surely reappear, and <q>fail
not.</q> And when he had repeated his message,
he would add another stanza, and tell how <emph>he</emph>
needed the shady foliage even more than man
himself, but that he pined not for it, because <emph>he
knew</emph> that to all things there was an appointed
season; and that when his nesting-time came,
so would the green leaves come also to shelter
and encircle the frail home of his young ones.
</p>

<p>
The pale moon went down, and the day broke
upon the earth, and Weary Heart went forth to
his daily toil. But he bore not with him the
fevered mind and the throbbing pulse which had
been his companions for long and dreary months.
His vision had faded, but the green leaves were
ever before his eyes. The song of his dream-bird
rang not in his ears, but his faith and trust
were restored to him; and he once more took
his place in creation as an elevated, yet dependent
child of Heaven&mdash;one in the mighty brotherhood
of human hearts&mdash;one in the band of willing
students of the teachings of the glorious sun
and stars, of the opening flowers and the sparkling
streams, of the singing birds and the ever-varying
clouds, of every form of beauty in which
God has written his message of love, and of
mercy, and of truth, for man's behoof.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>New Discoveries In Ghosts.</head>

<p>
Eclipses have been ascribed sometimes to
the hunger of a great dragon, who eats the
sun, and leaves us in the dark until the blazing
orb has been mended. Numerous instances are
ready to the memory of any one of us, in illustration
of the tendency existing among men to
ascribe to supernatural, fantastic causes, events
wonderful only by their rarity. All that we daily
see differs from these things no more than inasmuch
as it is at the same time marvelous and
common. We know very well that the moon,
seen once by all, would be regarded as an awful
spectre: open only to the occasional vision of a
few men, no doubt she would be scouted by a
large party as a creation of their fancy altogether.
</p>

<p>
The list of facts that have been scouted in
this way, corresponds pretty exactly to the list
of human discoveries, down to the recent improvements
in street-lighting and steam locomotion.
The knowledge of the best of us is but
a little light which shines in a great deal of darkness.
We are all of us more ignorant than wise.
The proportion of knowledge yet lying beyond
the confines of our explorations, is as a continent
against a cabbage garden. Yet many thousands
are contented to believe, that in this little bit of
garden lies our all, and to laugh at every report
made to the world by people who have ventured
just to peep over the paling. It is urged against
inquiries into matters yet mysterious&mdash;mysterious
as all things look under the light of the first
dawn of knowledge&mdash;Why should we pry into
them, until we know that we shall be benefited
by the information we desire? All information
is a benefit. All knowledge is good. Is it for
man to say, <q>What is the use of seeing?</q>
</p>

<p>
We are in the present day upon the trace of
a great many important facts relating to the imponderable
agencies employed in nature. Light,
heat, and electricity are no longer the simple
matters, or effects of matter, that they have aforetime
seemed to be. New wonders point to more
beyond. In magnetism, the researches of Faraday
and others, are beginning to open in our
own day, the Book of Nature, at a page of the
very first importance to the naturalist; but the
contents of which until this time have been
wholly unsuspected. Behind a cloudy mass of
fraud and folly, while the clouds shift, we perceive
a few dim stars, to guide us toward the
discovery of wondrous truths. There are such
truths which will hereafter illustrate the connection,
in many ways still mysterious, between
the body of man and the surrounding world.
Wonderful things have yet to be revealed, on
subjects of a delicate and subtle texture. It
behooves us in the present day, therefore, to
learn how we may keep our tempers free from
prejudice, and not discredit statements simply
because they are new and strange, nor, on the
other hand, accept them hastily without sufficient
proof.
</p>

<p>
On questionable points, which are decided by
research and weight of evidence, it would be well
<pb n='513'/><anchor id='Pg513'/>
if it were widely understood that it is by no
means requisite for every man to form an Ay or
Nay opinion. Let those who have no leisure for
a fair inquiry play a neutral part. There are
hundreds of subjects which we have never examined,
nor ever could or can examine, upon
which we are all, nevertheless, expressing every
day stubborn opinions. We all have to acquire
some measure of the philosophic mind, and be
content to retain a large army of thoughts, equipped
each thought with its crooked bayonet, a
note of interrogation. In reasoning, also, when
we do reason, we have to remember fairly that
<q>not proven</q> does not always mean untrue.
And in accepting matters on testimony, we must
rigidly preserve in view the fact, that, except
upon gross objects of sense, very few of us are
qualified by training as observers. In drawing
delicate conclusions from the complex and most
dimly comprehended operations of the human
frame observed in men and women, the sources
of fallacy are very numerous. To detect and
acknowledge these, to get rid of them experimentally,
is very difficult, even to the most candid
and enlightened mind.
</p>

<p>
I have no faith in ghosts, according to the old
sense of the word, and I could grope with comfort
through any amount of dark old rooms, or
midnight aisles, or over church-yards, between
sunset and cock-crow. I can face a spectre.
Being at one time troubled with illusions, I have
myself crushed a hobgoblin by sitting on its lap.
Nevertheless, I do believe that the great mass
of <q>ghost stories,</q> of which the world is full,
has not been built entirely upon the inventions
of the ignorant and superstitious. In plain
words, while I, of course, throw aside a million
of idle fictions, or exaggerated facts, I do believe
in ghosts&mdash;or, rather, spectres&mdash;only I do not
believe them to be supernatural.
</p>

<p>
That, in certain states of the body, many of
us in our waking hours picture as vividly as we
habitually do in dreams, and seem to see or hear
in fair reality that which is in our minds, is an
old fact, and requires no confirmation. An ignorant
or superstitious man fallen into this state,
may find good reason to tell ghost stories to his
neighbors. Disease, and the debility preceding
death, make people on their death-beds very liable
to plays of this kind on their failing faculties;
and one solemnity, or cause of dread, thus being
added to another, seems to give the strength of
reason to a superstitious feeling.
</p>

<p>
Concerning my own experience, which comes
under the class of natural ghost-seeing, above
mentioned, I may mention in good faith that, if
such phantoms were worth recalling, I could fill
up an hour with the narration of those spectral
sights and sounds which were most prominent
among the illusions of my childhood. Sights
and sounds were equally distinct and life-like.
I have run up-stairs obedient to a spectral call.
Every successive night for a fortnight, my childish
breath was stilled by the proceedings of a
spectral rat, audible, never visible. It nightly,
at the same hour, burst open a cupboard door,
scampered across the floor, and shook the chair
by my bedside. Wide awake and alone in the
broad daylight, I have heard the voices of two
nobodies gravely conversing, after the absurd
dream fashion, in my room. Then as for spectral
sights: During the cholera of 1832, I, then
a boy, walking in Holborn, saw in the sky, the
veritable flaming sword which I had learned
by heart out of a picture in an old folio of <q>Paradise
Lost.</q> And round the fiery sword there
was a regular oval of blue sky to be seen through
parted clouds. It was a fact not unimportant,
that this phantom sword did not move with my
eye, but remained for some time, apparently,
only in one part of the heavens. I looked aside
and lost it. When I looked back there was the
image still. There are hallucinations which
arise from a disordered condition of the nervous
system; they are the seeing or the hearing of
what is not, and they are not by any means uncommon.
Out of these there must, undoubtedly,
arise a large number of well-attested stories of
ghosts, seen by one person only. Such ghosts
ought to excite no more terror than a twinge of
rheumatism, or a nervous headache.
</p>

<p>
There can be no doubt, however, that, in our
minds or bodies, there are powers latent, or nearly
latent, in the ordinary healthy man, which, in
some peculiar constitutions, or under the influence
of certain agents, or certain classes of
disease, become active, and develop themselves
in an extraordinary way. It is not very uncommon
to find people who have acquired intuitive
perception of each other's current thoughts, beyond
what can be ascribed to community of
interests, or comprehension of character.
</p>

<p>
Zschokke, the German writer and teacher, is
a peculiarly honorable and unimpeachable witness.
What he affirms, as of his own knowledge,
we have no right to disbelieve. Many of
us have read the marvelous account given by
him of his sudden discovery, that he possessed
the power in regard to a few people&mdash;by no means
in regard to all&mdash;of knowing, when he came near
to them, not only their present thoughts, but
much of what was in their memories. The details
will be found in his Autobiography, which,
being translated, has become a common book
among us. When, for the first time, while conversing
with some person, he acquired a sense
of power over the secrets of that person's past
life, he gave, of course, little heed to his sensation.
Afterward, as from time to time the sense
recurred, he tested the accuracy of his impressions,
and was alarmed to find that, at certain
times, and in regard to certain persons, the mysterious
knowledge was undoubtedly acquired.
Once when a young man at the table with him
was dismissing very flippantly all manner of unexplained
phenomena as the gross food of ignorance
and credulity, Zschokke requested to know
what he would say if he, a stranger, by aid of an
unexplained power, should be able to tell him
secrets out of his past life. Zschokke was defied
to do that; but he did it. Among other things
he described a certain upper room, in which
<pb n='514'/><anchor id='Pg514'/>
there was a certain strong box, and from which
certain moneys, the property of his master, had
been abstracted by that young man; who, overwhelmed
with astonishment, confessed the theft.
</p>

<p>
Many glimmerings of intuition, which at certain
times occur in the experience of all of us, and
seem to be something more than shrewd or lucky
guesses, may be referred to the same power which
we find, in the case just quoted, more perfectly
developed. Nothing supernatural, but a natural
gift, imperceptible to us in its familiar, moderate,
and healthy exercise, brought first under our notice
when some deranged adjustment of the mind
has suffered it to grow into excess&mdash;to be, if we
may call it so, a mental tumor.
</p>

<p>
We may now come to a new class of mysteries&mdash;which
are receiving, for the first time in our
own day, a rational solution.
</p>

<p>
The blind poet, Pfeffel, had engaged, as amanuensis,
a young Protestant clergyman, named
Billing. When the blind poet walked abroad,
Billing also acted as his guide. One day, as they
were walking in the garden, which was situated
at a distance from the town, Pfeffel observed a
trembling of his guide's arm whenever they passed
over a certain spot. He asked the cause of
this, and extracted from his companion the unwilling
confession, that over that spot he was attacked
by certain uncontrollable sensations, which
he always felt where human bodies had been
buried. At night, he added, over such spots, he
saw uncanny things. <q>This is great folly,</q>
Pfeffel thought, <q>and I will cure him of it.</q> The
poet went, therefore, that very night into the garden.
When they approached the place of dread,
Billing perceived a feeble light, which hovered
over it. When they came nearer, he saw the
delicate appearance of a fiery, ghost-like form.
He described it as the figure of a female with one
arm across her body, and the other hanging down,
hovering upright and motionless over the spot,
her feet being a few hand-breadths above the soil.
The young man would not approach the vision,
but the poet beat about it with his stick, walked
through it, and seemed to the eyes of Billing like
a man who beats about a light flame, which always
returns to its old shape. For months, experiments
were continued, company was brought
to the spot, the spectre remained visible always
in the dark, but to the young man only, who adhered
firmly to his statement, and to his conviction
that a body lay beneath. Pfeffel at last had
the place dug up, and, at a considerable depth,
covered with lime, there was a skeleton discovered.
The bones and the lime were dispersed, the
hole was filled up, Billing was again brought to
the spot by night, but never again saw the spectre.
</p>

<p>
This ghost story, being well attested, created
a great sensation. In the curious book, by Baron
Reichenbach, translated by Dr. Gregory, it is
quoted as an example of a large class of ghost
stories which admit of explanation upon principles
developed by his own experiments.
</p>

<p>
The experiments of Baron Reichenbach do
not, indeed, establish a new science, though it is
quite certain that they go far to point out a new
line of investigation, which promises to yield
valuable results. So much of them as concerns
our subject may be very briefly stated. It would
appear that certain persons, with disordered
nervous systems, liable to catalepsy, or to such
affections, and also some healthy persons who
are of a peculiar nervous temperament, are more
sensitive to magnetism than their neighbors.
They are peculiarly acted upon by the magnet,
and are, moreover, very much under the influence
of the great magnetic currents of the earth. Such
people sleep tranquilly when they are reposing
with their bodies in the earth's magnetic line,
and are restless, in some cases seriously affected,
if they lie across that line, on beds with the head
and foot turned east and west, matters of complete
indifference to the healthy animal. These
<q>sensitives</q> are not only affected by the magnet,
but they are able to detect, by their sharpened
sense, what we may reasonably suppose to exist,
a faint magnetic light: they see it streaming
from the poles of a magnet shown to them, in a
room absolutely dark; and if the sensibility be
great, and the darkness perfect, they see it
streaming also from the points of fingers, and
bathing in a faint halo the whole magnet or the
whole hand. Furthermore, it would appear that
the affection by the magnet of these sensitives
does not depend upon that quality by which iron
filings are attracted; that, perfectly independent
of the attractive force, there streams from magnets,
from the poles of crystals, from the sun and
moon, another influence to which the discoverer
assigns the name of Odyle. The manifestation
of Odyle is accompanied by a light too faint for
healthy vision, but perceptible at night by <q>sensitives.</q>
Odyle is generated among other things
by heat, and by chemical action. It is generated,
therefore, in the decomposition of the human
body. I may now quote from Reichenbach, who,
having given a scientific explanation upon his
own principles, of the phenomena perceived by
Billing, thus continues:
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>The desire to inflict a mortal wound on the
monster, Superstition, which, from a similar
origin, a few centuries ago, inflicted on European
society so vast an amount of misery, and by
whose influence not hundreds, but thousands of
innocent persons died in tortures, on the rack
and at the stake; this desire made me wish to
make the experiment, if possible, of bringing a
highly sensitive person, by night, to a churchyard.
I thought it possible that they might see,
over graves where mouldering bodies lay, something
like that which Billing had seen. Mademoiselle
Reichal had the courage, unusual in her
sex, to agree to my request. She allowed me,
on two very dark nights, to take her from the
Castle of Reisenberg, where she was residing
with my family, to the cemetery of the neighboring
village of Grnzing.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>The result justified my expectations in the
fullest measure. She saw, very soon, a light,
and perceived, on one of the grave mounds,
along its whole extent, a delicate, fiery, as it
<pb n='515'/><anchor id='Pg515'/>
were a breathing flame. The same thing was
seen on another grave, in a less degree. But
she met neither witches nor ghosts. She described
the flame as playing over the graves in
the form of a luminous vapor, from one to two
spans in height.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Some time afterward I took her to two great
cemeteries, near Vienna, where several interments
occur daily, and the grave mounds lie all
about in thousands. Here she saw numerous
graves, which exhibited the lights above described.
Wherever she looked, she saw masses
of fire lying about; but it was chiefly seen over
all new graves, while there was no appearance
of it over very old ones. She described it less
as a clear flame than as a dense, vaporous mass
of fire, holding a middle place between mist and
flame. On many graves this light was about
four feet high, so that when she stood on the
grave, it reached to her neck. When she thrust
her hand into it, it was as if putting it into a
dense fiery cloud. She betrayed not the slightest
uneasiness, as she was, from her childhood,
accustomed to such emanations, and had seen,
in my experiments, similar lights produced by
natural means, and made to assume endless
varieties of form. I am convinced that all who
are, to a certain degree, sensitive, will see the
same phenomena in cemeteries, and very abundantly
in the crowded cemeteries of large cities;
and that my observations may be easily repeated
and confirmed.</q> These experiments were
tried in 1844. A postscript was added in 1847.
Reichenbach had taken five other sensitive persons,
in the dark, to cemeteries. Of these, two
were sickly, three quite healthy. All of them confirmed
the statements of Mademoiselle Reichel,
and saw the lights over all new graves more or
less distinctly; <q>so that,</q> says the philosopher,
<q>the fact can no longer admit of the slightest
doubt, and may be every where controlled.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Thousands of ghost stories,</q> he continues,
<q>will now receive a natural explanation, and
will thus cease to be marvelous. We shall even
see that it was not so erroneous or absurd as has
been supposed, when our old women asserted, as
every one knows they did, that not every one
was privileged to see the spirits of the departed
wandering over their graves. In fact, it was at
all times only the sensitive who could see the imponderable
emanations from the chemical change
going on in corpses, luminous in the dark. And
thus I have, I trust, succeeded in tearing down
one of the densest vails of darkened ignorance
and human error.</q>
</p>

<p>
So far speaks Reichenbach; and for myself,
reverting to the few comments with which we
set out, I would suggest, that Reichenbach's
book, though it is very likely to push things too
far&mdash;to fancy the tree by looking at the seed&mdash;is
yet not such a book as men of sense are justified
in scouting. The repetition of his experiments
is very easy if they be correct. There are plenty
of <q>sensitives</q> to be found in our London hospitals
and streets and lanes. Unluckily, however,
though we live in an age which produces,
every day, new marvels, the old spirit of bigotry,
which used to make inquiry dangerous in science
and religion, still prevails in the minds of too
many scientific men. To be incredulous of what
is new and strange, until it has been rigidly
examined and proved true, is one essential element
of a mind seeking enlightenment. But, to
test and try new things is equally essential. Because
of doubting, to refuse inquiry, is because
of hunger to refuse our food. For my own part,
I put these matters into the livery of that large
body of thoughts already mentioned, which walk
about the human mind, armed each with a note
of interrogation. This only I see, that, in addition
to the well-known explanations of phenomena
which produce some among the many
stories of ghosts and of mysterious forebodings,
new explanations are at hand which will reduce
into a natural and credible position many other
tales by which we have till recently been puzzled.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Keep Him Out!</head>

<p>
<q>What noise is that?</q> said a judge disturbed
in the hearing of a case. <q>It's a man,
my lord,</q> was the answer of the doorkeeper.
<q>What does he want?</q> <q>He wants to get in,
my lord.</q> <q>Well, keep him out!</q>
</p>

<p>
The audience is comfortably seated; the case
is going forward; to make room for the newcomer,
some must shift their seats, and perhaps
be jostled about a little; so they are all perfectly
satisfied with the judge's dictum of <q>Keep him
out.</q>
</p>

<p>
You have yourself been in an omnibus when
a stout passenger has presented himself to the
conductor, and petitioned for a place. You are
all snugly seated&mdash;why should you be disturbed?
<q>The seats are full!</q> <q>Keep him out!</q> But
the intruder is in, he presses forward to the inner
corner, perhaps treading on some testy gentleman's
toes. How you hate that new-comer,
until you get fairly <q>shook down</q> and settled
again in your places! The door opens again&mdash;another
passenger! <q>Keep him out!</q> cry the
company, and strange to say, the loudest vociferator
of the whole, is the very passenger who
last came in. He in his turn becomes conservative,
after having fairly got a place inside.
</p>

<p>
It is the same through life. There is a knocking
from time to time at the door of the constitution.
<q>What's that noise?</q> ask the men in
power. <q>It's a lot of men, my lords and gentlemen.</q>
<q>What do they want?</q> <q>They want
to come in.</q> <q>Well, keep them out!</q> And
those who are comfortably seated within the pale,
re-echo the cry of <q>Keep them out.</q> Why
should they be disturbed in their seats, and made
uncomfortable?
</p>

<p>
But somehow, by dint of loud knocking, the
men, or a rush of them, at length do contrive to
get in; and after sundry shovings and jostlings,
they get seated, and begin to feel comfortable,
when there is another knocking louder than before.
Would you believe it? the last accommodated
are now the most eager of all to keep the
<pb n='516'/><anchor id='Pg516'/>
door closed against the new-comers; and <q>Keep
them out!</q> is their vociferous cry.
</p>

<p>
Here is a batch of learned men debating the
good of their order. They are considering how
their profession may be advanced. What is the
gist of their decisions?&mdash;the enactment of laws
against all intruders upon their comfort and quiet.
They make their calling a snug monopoly, and
contrive matters so that as few as possible are
admitted to share the good things of their class.
<q>Keep them out!</q> is the cry of all the learned
professions.
</p>

<p>
<q>Keep them out!</q> cry the barristers, when
the attorneys claim to be admitted to plead before
certain courts. <q>Keep them out!</q> cry the attorneys,
when ordinary illegal men claim to argue
a case before the county court. <q>Keep her out!</q>
cry both barristers and attorneys, when Mrs. Cobbett
claims to be heard in her imprisoned husband's
cause. <q>What! a woman plead in the
courts? If such a thing be allowed, who knows
where such license is to end?</q> And she is kept
out accordingly.
</p>

<p>
<q>Keep them out!</q> cry the apothecaries, when
a surgeon from beyond the Tweed or the Irish
Channel claims to prescribe and dispense medicine
to English subjects. <q>Keep them out!</q>
cry the doctors, when the Homopathists offer
the public their millionth-grain doses. <q>Keep
them out!</q> cry physicians and surgeons and
apothecaries of all ranks, when it is proposed to
throw open the profession to the female sex.
</p>

<p>
But you find the same cry among the working
classes of every grade. Mechanics and tradesmen
insist on all applicants for admission to their
calling serving long apprenticeships. If the apprenticeships
are not served, then <q>Keep them
out!</q> is the word. Shoulder to shoulder they
exclude the applicants for leave to toil. <q>Knobsticks</q>
are pelted. They must join the union&mdash;must
be free of the craft&mdash;must conform to the
rules&mdash;subscribe to the funds&mdash;pay the footings,
and so on; otherwise they are kept out with a
vengeance.
</p>

<p>
In the circles of fashion the same cry is frequent.
A new man appears in society. <q>Who
is he?</q> <q>Only So-and-so!</q> He is a retired
grocer, or as Cobbett called Sadler, <q>a linen-draper;</q>
and the exclusive class immediately
club together for the purpose of <q>Keeping him
out.</q> He is <q>cut.</q> Even the new man of high-sounding
title is accounted as nothing among
the old families who boast of their <q>blue blood.</q>
Wealth goes a great way, but still that does not
compensate for the accident of birth and connections
among these classes.
</p>

<p>
Every class has its own standard. The money
classes have theirs too. Even tradesmen and
their wives go in sets, and there is always some
class outside their own set, which they contrive
to <q>keep out.</q> The aristocratic contagion thus
extends from the highest to the verge of the lowest
class of society in England. Is not monopoly
the rule among us, whenever we can find an
opportunity of establishing it? Monopoly or exclusivism
in art, in theology, in trade, in literature,
in sociology. Look at the forty Royal
Academicians setting their backs up against
every new-comer in art, and combining with one
accord to <q>Keep him out.</q> That is the monopoly
of art; and people at large call it a humbug;
but they are not more tolerant or wise when their
own craft comes to be dealt with. Each in his
turn is found ready to combine with somebody
else, to <q>keep out</q> all intruders on their special
preserves. The <q>Flaming Tinman,</q> in Lavengro,
pummels and puts to flight the poor tinker
who intrudes upon his beat; the costers combine
to keep out freshmen from theirs; English navvies
band together to drive Irish navvies off their
contracts; and Irish tenants pick off, from behind
a hedge, the intruders upon their holdings.
Even the searchers of the sewers maintain a kind
of monopoly of their unholy calling, and will
recognize no man as a brother who has not been
duly initiated in the mysteries of the search.
The sewer-searcher is as exclusive in his way
as the leader of fashion at Almacks. <q>Keep
him out!</q> is, in short, the watchword of all classes,
of all ranks, of all callings, of all crafts, of all
interests. We used to <q>keep out</q> the foreign
corn-grower, but though he may now come in,
there is exclusiveness and monopoly in ten thousand
other forms, which no legislation can ever
touch.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Story Of Rembrandt.</head>

<p>
At a short distance from Leyden may still be
seen a flour-mill with a quaint old dwelling-house
attached, which bears, on a brick in a
corner of the wide chimney, the date of 1550.
Here, in 1606, was born Paul Rembrandt. At
an early age, he manifested a stubborn, independent
will, which his father tried in vain to subdue.
He caused his son to work in the mill, intending
that he should succeed him in its management;
but the boy showed so decided a distaste for the
employment, that his father resolved to make him
a priest, and sent him to study at Leyden. Every
one knows, however, that few lads of fifteen, endowed
with great muscular vigor and abundance
of animal spirits, will take naturally and without
compulsion to the study of Latin grammar. Rembrandt
certainly did not; and his obstinacy proving
an overmatch for his teacher's patience, he
was sent back to the mill, when his father beat
him so severely, that next morning he ran off to
Leyden, without in the least knowing how he
should live there. Fortunately he sought refuge
in the house of an honest artist, Van Zwaanenberg,
who was acquainted with his father.
</p>

<p>
<q>Tell me, Paul,</q> asked his friend, <q>what do
you mean to do with yourself, if you will not be
either a priest or a miller? They are both honorable
professions: one gives food to the soul,
the other prepares it for the body.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Very likely,</q> replied the boy; <q>but I don't
fancy either; for in order to be a priest, one
must learn Latin; and to be a miller, one must
bear to be beaten. How do <emph>you</emph> earn your
bread?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You know very well I am a painter.</q>
</p>

<pb n='517'/><anchor id='Pg517'/>

<p>
<q>Then I will be one, too, Herr Zwaanenberg;
and if you will go to-morrow and tell my father
so, you will do me a great service.</q>
</p>

<p>
The good-natured artist willingly undertook
the mission, and acquainted the old miller with
his son's resolution.
</p>

<p>
<q>I want to know one thing,</q> said Master
Rembrandt, <q>will he be able to gain a livelihood
by painting?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Certainly, and perhaps make a fortune.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Then if you will teach him, I consent.</q>
</p>

<p>
Thus Paul became the pupil of Van Zwaanenberg,
and made rapid progress in the elementary
parts of his profession. Impatient to produce
some finished work, he did not give himself time
to acquire purity of style, but astonished his master
by his precocious skill in grouping figures, and
producing marvelous effects of light and shade.
The first lessons which he took in perspective
having wearied him, he thought of a shorter method,
and <emph>invented</emph> perspective for himself.
</p>

<p>
One of his first rude sketches happened to fall
into the hands of a citizen of Leyden who understood
painting. Despite of its evident defects,
the germs of rare talent which it evinced struck
the burgomaster; and sending for the young artist,
he offered to give him a recommendation to
a celebrated painter living at Amsterdam, under
whom he would have far more opportunity of
improvement than with his present instructor.
</p>

<p>
Rembrandt accepted the offer, and during the
following year toiled incessantly. Meantime his
finances were dreadfully straitened; for his father,
finding that the expected profits were very tardy,
refused to give money to support his son, as he
said, in idleness. Paul, however, was not discouraged.
Although far from possessing an
amiable or estimable disposition, he held a firm
and just opinion of his own powers, and resolved
to make these subservient first to fortune and
then to fame. Thus while some of his companions,
having finished their preliminary studies,
repaired to Florence, to Bologna, or to Rome,
Paul, determined, as he said, not to lose his own
style by becoming an imitator of even the mightiest
masters, betook himself to his paternal mill.
At first his return resembled that of the Prodigal
Son. His father believed that he had come to
resume his miller's work; and bitter was his disappointment
at finding his son resolved not to
renounce painting.
</p>

<p>
With a very bad grace he allowed Paul to displace
the flour-sacks in an upper loft, in order to
make a sort of studio, lighted by only one narrow
window in the roof. There Paul painted his first
finished picture. It was a <emph>portrait</emph> of the mill.
There, on the canvas, was seen the old miller,
lighted by a lantern which he carried in his
hand, giving directions to his men, occupied in
ranging sacks in the dark recesses of the granary.
One ray falls on the fresh, comely countenance
of his mother, who has her foot on the
last step of a wooden staircase.<note place='foot'>This picture
is believed to be no longer in existence.
I have found its description in the work of the historian
Decamps.</note> Rembrandt
took this painting to the Hague, and sold it for
100 florins. In order to return with more speed,
he took his place in the public coach. When the
passengers stopped to dine, Rembrandt, fearing
to lose his treasure, remained in the carriage.
The careless stable-boy who brought the horses
their corn forgot to unharness them, and as soon
as they had finished eating, excited probably by
Rembrandt, who cared not for his fellow-passengers,
the animals started off for Leyden, and
quietly halted at their accustomed inn. Our
painter then got out and repaired with his money
to the mill.
</p>

<p>
Great was his father's joy. At length these
silly daubs, which had so often excited his angry
contempt, seemed likely to be transmuted into
gold, and the old man's imagination took a rapturous
flight. <q>Neither he nor his old horse,</q>
he said, <q>need now work any longer; they might
both enjoy quiet during the remainder of their
lives. Paul would paint pictures, and support
the whole household in affluence.</q>
</p>

<p>
Such was the old man's castle in the air; his
clever, selfish son soon demolished it. <q>This
sum of money,</q> he said, <q>is only a lucky windfall.
If you indeed wish it to become the foundation
of my fortune, give me one hundred florins
besides, and let me return to Amsterdam: there
I must work and study hard.</q>
</p>

<p>
It would be difficult to describe old Rembrandt's
disappointment. Slowly, reluctantly, and one
by one, he drew forth the 100 florins from his
strong-box. Paul took them, and with small
show of gratitude, returned to Amsterdam. In
a short time his fame became established as the
greatest and most original of living artists. He
had a host of imitators, but all failed miserably
in their attempts at reproducing his marvelous
effects of light and shade. Yet Rembrandt prized
the gold which flowed in to him far more than the
glory. While mingling the colors which were to
flash out on his canvas in real living light, he
thought but of his dingy coffers.
</p>

<p>
When in possession of a yearly income equal
to 2000 sterling, he would not permit the agent
who collected his rents to bring them in from the
country to Amsterdam, lest he should be obliged
to invite him to dinner. He preferred setting out
on a fine day, and going himself to the agent's
house. In this way he saved two dinners&mdash;the
one which he got, and the one he avoided giving.
<q>So that's well managed!</q> he used to say.
</p>

<p>
This sordid disposition often exposed him to
practical jokes from his pupils; but he possessed
a quiet temper, and was not easily annoyed.
One day a rich citizen came in, and asked him
the price of a certain picture.
</p>

<p>
<q>Two hundred florins,</q> said Rembrandt.
</p>

<p>
<q>Agreed,</q> said his visitor. <q>I will pay you
to-morrow, when I send for the picture.</q>
</p>

<p>
About an hour afterward a letter was handed
to the painter. Its contents were as follows:
</p>

<p>
<q><hi rend='smallcaps'>Master Rembrandt</hi>&mdash;During your absence
a few days since, I saw in your studio a picture
representing an old woman churning butter. I
was enchanted with it; and if you will let me
<pb n='518'/><anchor id='Pg518'/>
purchase it for 300 florins, I pray you to bring
it to my house, and be my guest for the day.</q>
</p>

<p>
The letter was signed with some fictitious
name, and bore the address of a village several
leagues distant from Amsterdam.
</p>

<p>
Tempted by the additional 100 florins, and
caring little for breaking his engagement, Rembrandt
set out early next morning with his picture.
He walked for four hours without finding
his obliging correspondent, and at length,
worn out with fatigue, he returned home. He
found the citizen in his studio, waiting for the
picture. As Rembrandt, however, did not despair
of finding the man of the 300 florins, and
as a falsehood troubled but little his blunted conscience,
he said, <q>Alas! an accident has happened
to the picture; the canvas was injured,
and I felt so vexed that I threw it into the fire.
Two hundred florins gone! However, it will be
my loss, not yours, for I will paint another precisely
similar, and it shall be ready for you by
this time to-morrow.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I am sorry,</q> replied the amateur, <q>but it
was the picture you have burned which I wished
to have; and as that is gone, I shall not trouble
you to paint another.</q>
</p>

<p>
So he departed, and Rembrandt shortly afterward
received a second letter to the following
effect: <q><hi rend='smallcaps'>Master Rembrandt</hi>&mdash;You have broken
your engagement, told a falsehood, wearied yourself
to death, and lost the sale of your picture&mdash;all
by listening to the dictates of avarice. Let
this lesson be a warning to you in future.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>So,</q> said the painter, looking round at his
pupils, <q>one of you must have played me this
pretty trick. Well, well, I forgive it. You young
varlets do not know the value of a florin as I
know it.</q>
</p>

<p>
Sometimes the students nailed small copper
coins on the floor, for the mischievous pleasure
of seeing their master, who suffered much from
rheumatism in the back, stoop with pain and
difficulty, and try in vain to pick them up.
</p>

<p>
Rembrandt married an ignorant peasant who
had served him as cook, thinking this a more
economical alliance than one with a person of
refined mind and habits. He and his wife
usually dined on brown-bread, salt herrings, and
small-beer. He occasionally took portraits at a
high price, and in this way became acquainted
with the Burgomaster Six, a man of enlarged
mind and unblemished character, who yet continued
faithfully attached to the avaricious painter.
His friendship was sometimes put to a severe
test by such occurrences as the following:
</p>

<p>
Rembrandt remarked one day that the price
of his engravings had fallen.
</p>

<p>
<q>You are insatiable,</q> said the burgomaster.
</p>

<p>
<q>Perhaps so. I can not help thirsting for gold.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You are a miser.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>True; and I shall be one all my life.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>'Tis really a pity,</q> remarked his friend,
<q>that you will not be able after death to act as
your own treasurer, for whenever that event occurs,
all your works will rise to treble their present
value.</q>
</p>

<p>
A bright idea struck Rembrandt. He returned
home, went to bed, desired his wife and his son
Titus to scatter straw before the door, and give
out, first, that he was dangerously ill, and then
dead&mdash;while the simulated fever was to be of so
dreadfully infectious a nature that none of the
neighbors were to be admitted near the sick-room.
These instructions were followed to the
letter; and the disconsolate widow proclaimed
that, in order to procure money for her husband's
interment, she must sell all his works, any property
that he left not being available on so short
a notice.
</p>

<p>
The unworthy trick succeeded. The sale, including
every trivial scrap of painting or engraving,
realized an enormous sum, and Rembrandt
was in ecstasy. The honest burgomaster, however,
was nearly frightened into a fit of apoplexy
at seeing the man whose death he had sincerely
mourned standing alive and well at the door of
his studio. Meinherr Six obliged him to promise
that he would in future abstain from such abominable
deceptions. One day he was employed in
painting in a group the likenesses of the whole
family of a rich citizen. He had nearly finished
it, when intelligence was brought him of the
death of a tame ape which he greatly loved. The
creature had fallen off the roof of the house into
the street. Without interrupting his work, Rembrandt
burst into loud lamentations, and after
some time announced that the piece was finished.
The whole family advanced to look at it, and
what was their horror to see introduced between
the heads of the eldest son and daughter an exact
likeness of the dear departed ape. With one
voice they all exclaimed against this singular relative
which it had pleased the painter to introduce
among them, and insisted on his effacing it.
</p>

<p>
<q>What!</q> exclaimed Rembrandt, <q>efface the
finest figure in the picture? No, indeed; I prefer
keeping the piece for myself.</q> Which he
did, and carried off the painting.
</p>

<p>
Of Rembrandt's style it may be said that he
painted with light, for frequently an object was
indicated merely by the projection of a shadow
on a wall. Often a luminous spot suggested,
rather than defined, a hand or a head. Yet there
is nothing vague in his paintings: the mind seizes
the design immediately. His studio was a circular
room, lighted by several narrow slits, so
contrived that rays of sunshine entered through
only one at a time, and thus produced strange
effects of light and shade. The room was filled
with old-world furniture, which made it resemble
an antiquary's museum. There were heaped up
in the most picturesque confusion curious old furniture,
antique armor, gorgeously-tinted stuffs;
and these Rembrandt arranged in different forms
and positions, so as to vary the effects of light
and color. This he called <q>making his models
sit to him.</q> And in this close adherence to reality
consisted the great secret of his art. It is
strange that his favorite among all his pupils was
the one whose style least resembled his own&mdash;Gerard
Douw&mdash;he who aimed at the most excessive
minuteness of delineation, who stopped keyholes
<pb n='519'/><anchor id='Pg519'/>
lest a particle of dust should fall on his
pallet, who gloried in representing the effects
of fresh scouring on the side of a kettle.
</p>

<p>
Rembrandt died in 1674, at the age of sixty-eight.
He passed all his life at Amsterdam.
Some of his biographers have told erroneously
that he once visited Italy: they were deceived
by the word <hi rend='italic'>Venetiis</hi> placed at the bottom of
several of his engravings. He wrote it there
with the intention of deluding his countrymen
into the belief that he was absent, and about to
settle in Italy&mdash;an impression which would
materially raise the price of his productions.
Strange and sad it is to see so much genius
united with so much meanness&mdash;the head of fine
gold with the feet of clay.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Viper.</head>

<p>
At a recent monthly meeting of the Kendal
Natural History Society, a letter was read
from Mr. W. Pearson, on the natural history of
Crossthwaite, from which we give the following
extract:&mdash;<q>On the afternoon of 23d July last,</q>
says Mr. Pearson, <q rend='pre'>the servant girl called me
into the pantry in a great flurry. She said a hagworm
was trying to get in at the window. And
there it was, sure enough, raising itself straight
up from the window-sill; first trying one pane,
and then another; strangely puzzled, no doubt,
that what seemed so clear an opening should
offer any obstruction. The glass manufacture
was evidently a mystery to it. The window being
low, it had crawled over a heap of sand lying
before it. It had probably smelt something tempting
in the pantry, with which it wished to make
nearer acquaintance. It was a beautiful creature.
Its small head, prominent dark eyes, and pretty
mottled skin, might have pleaded strongly for
mercy; but, notwithstanding my general habit
of sparing these reptiles when I meet with them
in my walks, it was approaching too much in the
guise of a housebreaker to be pardoned, so I gave
orders for its instant execution. Moreover, there
is little doubt that it was the same individual who
had, in times past, come rather too near us to be
pleasant. The year before, I had noticed a viper
within a yard or two of our kitchen-door, with
his head and about half a foot of his body thrust
out from a hole in the wall right behind the
kitchen grate. The genial climate had most
likely attracted him. Be this as it may, before I
could procure a switch to chastise him for his
impudence, he very prudently withdrew into his
hole, only protruding a part of his head and eyes,
with which to make observations. For some days
after this, I never entered the house by the back-door
without thinking of our new neighbor; and
once or twice I had a glimpse of him in his old
quarters, but he very warily never exposed more
of his precious person than his head and eyes, so
that, if it had not been for his unfortunate expedition
to the pantry, he might still have been a
living hagworm. You are aware that this species
of snake has at least three names in England&mdash;the
viper, adder, and hagworm. The last is
our own local term. Some authors class it with
the amphibia. An extraordinary narrative appeared
lately in the <q>Kendal Mercury,</q> of a snake
crossing Connistone Lake, which is at least half
a mile wide. It was not the sea-serpent, but our
poor little hagworm, that was engaged in this
bold navigation. It was, however, unfortunately
fallen in with by a piratical boatman, and put to
death. Without disputing the truth of the narration,
or settling the question how far the viper
is amphibious, the remark is obvious, that the
poor snake was taken at a disadvantage; for, if
it had been equally at home on the water as on
land, why did it not save itself by diving as an eel
or a frog would have done under like circumstances?
Again, why is not the name of the boatman
given? Why should he be defrauded of his
fair fame? It is to be wished that newspaper
editors, in general, were more careful to authenticate
their many marvelous tales in natural
history. It would be a great satisfaction to
the skeptical naturalist. One may easily credit
that a viper will occasionally take the water, without
going the length of a full belief in the Connistone
voyage.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>One day last spring, when angling, I met with
one of these snakes, coiled up, within a few feet
of the Winster stream, and when disturbed he
fled toward the water, though I did not see him
enter it. It is curious the variety of situations
in which they are to be met with; in the lowest
parts of the valleys, and on the tops of our highest
hills; sometimes close to our houses, as I
have mentioned; in the plain field, and in the
roughest wood&mdash;hence their name, hagworm; on
the roadside, or on the ling moor, where they
sometimes bite the sportsman's dog, though I
never heard of any fatal consequences. In crossing
a turnpike road on a sunny day, they are often
tempted to linger, such is their love of warmth,
and bask on the heated stones and dust, where
they are sure to be killed by the first passenger.
They are never spared. Their sinuous tracks
across the dusty roads in dry weather may be often
observed. On riding out one day this summer, a
hagworm crossed the road just before me. It
exhibited a beautiful specimen of serpentine motion,
and wriggled along with surprising celerity.
It was a warm day; and the movements of all
these reptiles are wonderfully quickened by a
genial atmosphere.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>The ringed, or harmless common snake, if
found at all in our district, is, I think, very scarce,
for I have never seen one. It is said by Latreille
and other naturalists to be fond of milk, and that
it will sometimes enter farmers' dairies to enjoy
its favorite beverage. Does our viper, or hagworm,
also possess this refined propensity? It
seems probable enough, if one may judge from
our pantry adventure. I am here reminded of a
pretty little story which I heard in my youth, and
which is well known to our rural population.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>A cottage child had been in the habit for some
time of taking its porridge every morning into the
orchard, to eat there, instead of in the house.
Its mother was curious to know why it did this.
At length it was watched, and found seated under
<pb n='520'/><anchor id='Pg520'/>
an apple-tree in company with a huge serpent, its
head dipt in the porringer sharing the child's
breakfast. But taking up a greater part of the
dish than was consistent with fair play, or quite
agreeable to good manners, the child was beating
its head with the spoon, saying&mdash;<q>Take at thy
own side, Grayface; take at thy own side, Grayface</q>&mdash;the
snake submitting to this rather uncourteous
treatment with the most praiseworthy
patience. Indeed, this reverence for innocence,
felt by savage beast or venomous reptile, is a
beautiful feature of many of those old romantic
tales, from the most simple to be found in rustic
life, to the grand allegorical fiction of Spenser's
<q>Fairy Queen,</q> of</q>
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Heavenly Una with her milk-white lamb,</q></l>
<l><q rend='post'>And the brave Lion slain in her defense.</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

<p>
<q>But may there not be some truth, after all, in
this tale of the serpent and child? Remember
the fact&mdash;that serpents have a strange propensity
to come near our houses, and are not unfrequently
found there, as was exemplified this last
summer in our own locality by two instances:
the one, that of the pantry burglar; the other, by
a large hagworm being caught lying in wait, and
killed close to the farm-house below. Then their
acknowledged predilection for a milk diet: it is
said that, when tamed, they eat it greedily. Giving
due weight, therefore, to these two circumstances,
is it not probable enough that there is a
substratum of truth in this story, and that it is
not a mere invention trumped up to please the
nursery?</q>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Esther Hammond's Wedding-Day.</head>

<p>
A few years ago, having made known to
those whom it might concern that I wanted
a footman, there came, among others, to offer
himself for the situation, a young man, named
George Hammond. He had a slight figure, and
a pale, thin, handsome face, but a remarkably sad
expression. Although he inspired me with interest,
I felt, before I began to question him, that
I should hardly like to have that melancholy countenance
always under my eye.
</p>

<p>
<q>Where have you lived?</q> I asked.
</p>

<p>
<q>I have never been exactly in a situation,</q> he
answered.
</p>

<p>
<q>Then,</q> said I, interrupting him, <q>I fear you
will not suit me.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I meant to say,</q> he continued, turning paler
than before, as if pained by my ready denial&mdash;<q>I
meant to say that although I have never been in
a situation, yet I know the duties of a servant,
for I have been for several months under Lord
Gorton's house-steward, Mr. Grindlay, and he
has taught me every thing.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Did Lord Gorton pay you wages?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No; but he allowed me to wait at table, and
I acted just as if I had been paid wages.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Mr. Grindlay is a friend of yours, then?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes; he has been very kind, and has taken
a great deal of pains with me.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And you think you are fit to undertake such
a place as mine?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I think I am, and I should try to give satisfaction;
for I am very anxious indeed to earn
my own living.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And who is to give you a character?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Mr. Grindlay will; he has known me all my
life.</q>
</p>

<p>
During the conversation of which the above is
an abridgement, I found that my feelings were
veering round to a more favorable quarter for
the candidate. Young as he was, I thought I
could discern that he had suffered, and that he
was anxious to diminish, or repair, his ill fortunes
by industry and good conduct. There was a moment,
too, in which I fancied I saw the clew to
his sorrows. It was when I said, <q>You are not
married, I presume?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No,</q> said he.
</p>

<p>
<q>Because,</q> I added, <q>my house is not large,
and visitors below are inconvenient.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I have nobody in the world belonging to me
but one sister. And the only friend I have is
Mr. Grindlay,</q> he replied, with some eagerness,
as if to put a period to further inquiries in that
direction, while he visibly changed color. Feeling
sure there was some painful family history
behind, I said no more, but that I would see Mr.
Grindlay, if he would call on the following day.
</p>

<p>
<q>By-the-by,</q> I rejoined, as the young man
was leaving, the room, <q>we said nothing about
wages; what do you expect?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Whatever you are accustomed to give,</q> he
answered.
</p>

<p>
<q>Very well; I'll speak to Mr. Grindlay about
it.</q>
</p>

<p>
It was the situation he was anxious about,
clearly; not wages.
</p>

<p>
On the following morning Mr. Grindlay came.
</p>

<p>
<q>You are well acquainted with this young
man?</q> I said.
</p>

<p>
<q>I have known him since he was that high,</q>
he answered, placing his hand on the table;
<q>and you can't have a better lad; that I'll engage.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>He is honest and sober?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You may trust him with untold gold; and
as for wine or spirits, such a thing never passes
his lips.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But he has been under your guidance, Mr.
Grindlay,</q> I answered; <q>he is young; do you
think he will be able to stand alone?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I've no fear of him; none whatever,</q> he replied.
<q>To say the truth, he had an awful
lesson before his eyes in regard to excessive
drinking. Such a lesson as he'll never forget.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Indeed!</q> said I; <q>his father?</q>
</p>

<p>
Mr. Grindlay shook his head. I made no further
inquiry then; but agreed to engage George
Hammond.
</p>

<p>
At first, he was so anxious to please, and so
nervous lest he should not please, that he tumbled
up-stairs in his hurry to answer the bell,
and very nearly broke my best decanters. His
hand so shook with agitation when I had friends
to dinner, lest he should be found deficient, that
I momentarily expected to see him drop the plates
and glasses on the floor. However, he got through
this ordeal without any serious accident; and by
<pb n='521'/><anchor id='Pg521'/>
degrees I discovered that I had found a treasure
of fidelity and good service. He lived with me
for six years, and then, to my regret, we parted;
my only consolation being that our separation
was consequent on a plan formed for his advantage.
</p>

<p>
During the first years, I knew nothing more of
George's history than I had gathered from Mr.
Grindlay's significant hint at our only interview.
I concluded that in that hint the whole mystery
was revealed. George's father had been a drunkard,
and his vice had probably ruined a decent
family. The appearance of George's only visitor,
his sister, Esther, confirmed this view; she
looked so respectable and so dejected! She never
came but on Sunday, and then I was always glad
if I could spare George to take a walk with her.
After I had learnt his value, I gave him leave to
invite her to dine, and to remain the evening with
him, whenever he pleased. He told me she worked
with a milliner in Pall Mall; and I observed
that she always wore black, which I concluded
she did from an economical motive. She seemed
very shy; and I never troubled her with questions.
</p>

<p>
George had been with us upward of five years,
when we were visited by an old friend whose
home was on the opposite side of the earth.
He had returned to England, partly to see his
relatives, and partly to transact some business
respecting a small property he had lately inherited.
During his sojourn he frequently dined
with us; and, while at table, we did not fail to
ply him with questions regarding his experiences
in the colony he inhabited. <q>The great difficulty
of <emph>getting along</emph>, as we call it,</q> he answered, one
day, <q>lies in the impossibility of gathering people
about us, upon whom we can rely. I have made
money,</q> he said, <q>and have no right to complain;
but I should have made twice as much
if I had employed honest and intelligent men.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You should take some abroad with you,</q> I
replied.
</p>

<p>
<q>I purpose to do something of the kind,</q> he
answered; <q>and, by-the-by, if you should hear
of any honest, intelligent young man, who can
write good plain English in a legible hand, and
who would not object to seek his fortune across
the water, let me know.</q>
</p>

<p>
George was in the room when this was said,
and I involuntarily raised my eyes to his face.
When I read its expression, a twinge of selfishness
brought the color to my cheeks. <q>Now we
shall lose him,</q> I said; and we did lose him. A
few days afterward, Mr. Jameson, our colonial
friend, told us that he was afraid his conversation
had been the means of seducing our melancholy
footman. He had found an extremely well-written
letter on his table, signed <q>George
Hammond,</q> expressing a wish to accompany
him abroad, and dated from our house, which he
had at first imagined was a jest of mine. <q>But
I find it is from your servant,</q> he continued,
<q>and I have told him that I can say nothing until
I have consulted you on the subject.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I am afraid I can allege nothing against it,</q>
</p>

<p>
I answered, <q>if he suits you, and wishes to go.
A more trustworthy, excellent person you never
can meet with.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And what are his connections?</q> inquired Mr.
Jameson; <q>for I would not be accessory to taking
any young man out of the country without
being sure that he was not doing wrong in leaving
it.</q>
</p>

<p>
For this information I referred him to Mr.
Grindlay; with whom an interview was arranged.
Mr. Grindlay entered so warmly into the plan,
that he declared himself willing to make some
pecuniary advances to promote it.
</p>

<p>
<q>It is not necessary,</q> said Mr. Jameson. <q>I
shall be very willing to undertake all the expenses
of outfit and voyage.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You are very good, indeed, sir. But,</q> added
Mr. Grindlay, <q>George has a sister, who would
break her heart if he left her. She is a good,
clever girl, and understands dress-making and
millinery well. She works for Madame Roland.
I suppose she would easily make a living in the
parts you are going to?</q>
</p>

<p>
Mr. Jameson was quite agreeable that Esther
should be of the party; and Mr. Grindlay under
took the charge of her outfit. <q>But,</q> said our
friend, <q>before we proceed farther, I must know
who these young people are; and that their
friends have no reasonable objection to our
plan.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>They have no friends!</q> answered Mr. Grindlay,
shaking his gray head; <q>nobody to make
any objection, reasonable or otherwise; but, as
you are willing to undertake the charge of them,
sir, I think it would be only right that you should
know the exact truth.</q>
</p>

<p>
This was the train of circumstances which led
to my acquaintance with the present story.
</p>

<p>
The parents of George and Esther Hammond
kept a small but respectable inn, in one of the
southern counties of England. The house was
not situated in a town, nor yet very far from one,
but it was a pretty rural spot, with a bowling
green and garden; and it was a common thing
for the inhabitants of the neighboring city to make
parties there on Sundays and holidays, to dine
and drink cider, for which the house was famous.
It was, indeed, an extremely well-kept, clean,
comfortable, little inn, the merit of which good
keeping was chiefly referred by the public voice
to Mrs. Hammond: an industrious, hard-working,
thrifty woman. She was generally reputed to be
more than thrifty. It was often remarked that
when Hammond himself was absent from home,
the tables were less liberally served, and the
charge higher, than when he was there to moderate
her besetting sin&mdash;the love of gain. Still,
she was an excellent wife, and a good hostess;
and she was devoted to her husband and her two
children, George and Esther. In short, she was
a woman who took every thing in earnest, and
she loved her family, as she worked for them,
with all her energies. She loved her children
wisely, too: for she was extremely anxious to
give them the best education she could afford;
and, although, as was consistent with her character,
<pb n='522'/><anchor id='Pg522'/>
she kept them somewhat rigidly, she was
essentially a kind mother.
</p>

<p>
Hammond's character was different. He was
by nature an easy, liberal, good-natured fellow,
with a considerable dash of cleverness and a very
well-looking person. In youth he had gone by
the name of <q>Handsome George;</q> and was still
a universal favorite with his friends and customers.
The only disputes that ever occurred between
Hammond and his wife, arose out of those
agreeable qualities. The guests were apt to invite
the host into the parlor to drink with them;
and when Handsome George once had his legs
under his own or any body else's mahogany, he
was not disposed to draw them out for some
time. If this happened on a Sunday&mdash;when
there were more parties than one to attend&mdash;his
wife would get angry, and accuse him of neglecting
his business. The husband's imperturbable
good-humor, however, soon allayed the irritation.
</p>

<p>
At length the time arrived when the two children
were to leave this pleasant home, to learn
something beyond reading and writing, to which
their acquirements had yet been limited. They
were accordingly sent away to school.
</p>

<p>
As the business of Hammond's Inn was not
sufficient to keep it always lively, the absence of
the children was very much felt. The mother
was perhaps not less sensible of the privation
than the father; as many an involuntary sigh
testified. He lamented loudly; and, when there
was no business to engage his attention, went
listlessly about with his hands in his pockets, or
sat gloomily at the door, puffing at his pipe, and
spreading the fumes of his tobacco over the jessamine
and wild roses that overran the porch.
When company came, however, he was merrier;
and, when he was invited to <q>make one,</q> he
was apt to drink more freely than formerly.
</p>

<p>
In process of time, however, a circumstance
occurred that diverted Hammond's attention into
another channel. A few convivial fellows residing
at Tutton, proposed to get up a club, to meet
every Saturday night; the winter meetings to be
held at an inn called the King's Arms, in the
town, and the summer meetings at Hammond's
Inn; the members to be elected by ballot. To
this last rule, however, there was one exception,
and that was in favor of Hammond himself.
</p>

<p>
<q>It was no use balloting <emph>him</emph></q> they said;
<q>nobody would give him a black ball.</q> He was
pleased with this testimony to his popularity;
and, in spite of some misgivings on the part of
his wife, he addressed his mind heartily to the
new project, and fitted up a room, to be held
sacred every Saturday night for six months in
the year to these convivial meetings.
</p>

<p>
The chief originator of this scheme was the
host of the King's Arms, whose name was Jackson.
He was what is called a jolly fellow; extremely
fond of company, and able to sing a good
song. The other members consisted of tradesmen
residing in the town, and some of the upper
servants of the neighboring nobility and gentry.
Among these last was Mr. Grindlay.
</p>

<p>
Every body concerned was delighted with the
new club; except, perhaps, the wives of the
clubbists, who did not look forward to the Saturday
nights with the same affection as their husbands.
More than one of them was heard to say
that it was a good thing Saturday came but once
a week, and that if it came oftener, she, for one,
wouldn't bear it. Hannah Hammond, although
not a woman to express her feelings publicly, did
not like this club, in spite of the profits derived
from it. She saw that Hammond began to feel
that the dull evenings at home contrasted very
unpleasantly with the jolly nights at the club.
As he and the host of the King's Arms grew
more intimate, they were apt to console themselves
with a few extra meetings. Sometimes
Hammond made an excuse to go into the town,
and sometimes Jackson came to him; but in the
latter case Hannah gave her husband's visitor an
indifferent welcome. Jackson seems to have kept
<emph>his</emph> wife in better order; she had already discovered
that drink is stronger than love. At first,
Hammond yielded occasionally, either to frowns
or persuasion; but as one ascendency grew, the
other declined; and when he was not strong
enough to brave his wife's wrath or entreaties,
he eluded them, by slipping out when she was
off her guard. Once away, he seldom reappeared
until the next morning; and, as time advanced,
two or three days would elapse before his return.
Then, when he came, she scolded, and wept; but
men get used to women's tears; and, like petrifying
waters, they only harden their hearts as
they fall.
</p>

<p>
So passed a few years; and the girl and boy
were no longer children. Esther was a fine
young woman of seventeen, and her brother
eighteen months older. They had been some
time away from the school, and George had been
taken home to be instructed to follow his father's
business, which had been the parents' original
intention, when Hannah's mind was altered. She
thought it was a calling that exposed a weak will
to temptation, and she dreaded lest her son should
get too familiar with his father's habits and associates;
so, with Hammond's consent, she procured
him a situation in a merchant's counting
house; where, being steady and intelligent, he
had every prospect of doing well.
</p>

<p>
She kept Esther at home to be her own assistant
and consolation; for she needed both. She
attributed all her troubles to Jackson, who had
first enticed her husband to drink, and had never
since allowed him time to be acted on by better
influences. In proportion, therefore, as she loved
her husband, she hated Jackson; and, in spite of
all, she did love George dearly still. It was true,
he was no longer Handsome George: his features
were bloated, his figure swollen, his hair thin and
grizzled, and his dress neglected and dirty; but
he was the chosen husband of her youth; and,
with Hannah, to love once was to love always.
</p>

<p>
Jackson had a son, an excellent lad, possessing
all his father's good qualities, and none of his bad
ones. He and young George had been at school
together, and a friendship had arisen between
<pb n='523'/><anchor id='Pg523'/>
them that promised to be enduring; the more so,
that Esther Hammond and Henry Jackson were
lovers&mdash;a secret, the discovery of which was at
first very ill received by Hannah. That her
Esther should marry the son of Jackson whom
she hated, was not to be thought of.
</p>

<p>
<q>There's little reason to fear that Harry will
take after his father, mother,</q> George would say.
<q>Besides, you'd think it hard if any body made
me suffer for father; and, for my part, I think
it's enough to cure any body of a love of liquor,
to see how it disguises people who would be so
different if they could leave it alone.</q>
</p>

<p>
It was some time before this kind of argument
prevailed with Hannah; but it had its effect at
length, sustained as it was by the genuine merits
of the candidate, by his evident abhorrence of his
father's vice, and by his dutiful attentions to his
mother. So, by-and-by, he became a welcome
visitor to Mrs. Hammond and her daughter; and,
all things concurring, it was tacitly understood
among them, that some day or other, when they
were both old enough, and when Henry should
be in a situation to maintain a family, Esther
was to be his wife.
</p>

<p>
This arrangement&mdash;now that she was satisfied
of Harry Jackson's good character&mdash;shed a gleam
of comfort on Hannah's dark path; for her path
lay dark before her now. The host of the King's
Arms was never happy out of Hammond's company;
the truth being, that the unfortunate man
had grown really fond of George. Hannah's
frowns and coldness could not keep him away;
and if she, by persuasion or stratagem, contrived
to detain her husband at home, Jackson invariably
came in search of him. Then, besides all the
other griefs and discomforts attending such a state
of things, the business of the house began to decline.
The respectable townspeople did not like
to frequent an inn where the host was always
intoxicated; and, to many who had known them
in happier days, George Hammond's bloated face,
and Hannah's pinched features were not pleasant
to behold. If matters went on at this rate, pecuniary
embarrassments were not unlikely to be
added to her other afflictions; and her dread of
this was materially increased by finding that
Hammond was beginning to tamper with a small
sum of money they had placed in the Tutton
Bank, under a mutual agreement that it should
remain there, untouched, until Esther's marriage.
All this misery she owed to Jackson, even to the
last item in her troubles; for she discovered that
the money had been drawn out to lend to him.
</p>

<p>
Matters went on in this way from bad to worse.
Mrs. Hammond was miserable, and Mrs. Jackson
was breaking her heart, and the business of both
houses was going to the dogs, when Hannah resolved
on a last effort to avert the impending
ruin.
</p>

<p>
Had she thought her husband utterly corrupted,
her scheme would have been vain; but he had
moments of remorse still, in which his good heart
got the ascendant: and, persuaded by her unshaken
love, she believed that if she could but
wean him from Jackson's company, he might, by
her attachment and vigilance, be reclaimed. It
so happened that she had a cousin married to a
farmer in a distant part of England; and, one
day, taking George in a moment of sobriety and
repentance, she made a strong appeal to his feelings
and affections. <q>I know,</q> she said, <q>that
it is Jackson who tempts you to drink, when of
yourself you might resist; and I do believe that
if the habit were once broken, and your acquaintance
with him ceased, we might all be saved yet.
Go to my cousin's; she has often invited us, and
I'll write to her and say you are ordered change
of air for your health. You'll see no drinking
there; her husband's a very sober man. You
like farming&mdash;go into the fields and the gardens,
and work with the spade and plough. It will
make another man of you, George. When you
return, we'll break with Jackson entirely.</q>
</p>

<p>
The appeal prevailed. George sobbed, threw
his arms round his wife's neck, and vowed that
he would never touch liquor again. Eventually,
with his wardrobe brushed up, he was dispatched
on this hopeful expedition.
</p>

<p>
Such a course of life as this, however, could
not be carried on without some evil consequences
to himself as well as others; and in spite of the
efforts of his miserable wife to keep things together,
the house was ill-conducted; custom forsook
it; and although, unknown to Hannah, Jackson
had by degrees extracted from Hammond every
penny of the savings deposited in the bank, he
was distressed for money, and could not keep
his creditors quiet. Added to this, he fell ill
with a severe attack of delirium tremens, and,
when matters were at the worst with him, and
they thought he would die, Hannah's energetic
mind began to form plans for the future. Henry
and Esther should be married; the money in the
Bank should pay off the most pressing liabilities;
the care and industry of the young people should
restore the house to its former flourishing condition;
Mrs. Jackson, the mother, could live with
her son, and they should all be once more happy&mdash;for,
the tempter gone, George would be sober.
Was he not sober now at the pleasant farm-house,
where he was living with her friends? Did not
every letter of her cousin's praise him, and assure
her that he never expressed a desire to drink;
and that even although they had been to a christening
in the neighborhood, where there was a
vast deal of conviviality, George had been so abstemious
and cautious, as to delight them all?
</p>

<p>
But, alas! Jackson recovered, and with his recovery
Hannah's plans were frustrated; but she
had a fertile brain; and, where the welfare of
those she loved was concerned, her energies never
slept. She learnt from Harry, that Jackson's
creditors were more pressing than ever, and that
he did not know which way to turn for money.
It was quite certain that if nothing were done,
his property would be seized, and his wife turned
into the street. Might she not take advantage
of these embarrassments, and execute her original
plan on condition of his abandoning the
neighborhood altogether? Next to his death, his
removal would be the best thing. Harry and
<pb n='524'/><anchor id='Pg524'/>
Esther would keep the House; the creditors
would be indulgent; and, among the family, they
would make an allowance for the support of Mr.
and Mrs. Jackson in some distant spot; any sacrifice
being preferable to the certain ruin that
impended. Mrs. Jackson was afraid that her
husband would not consent to the scheme; but
she was mistaken; people who are the victims
of intemperance are easily won to acquiesce in
any measures that are proposed for their advantage;
their adherence to them is another affair.
But Hannah set to work; and as there was a
general sympathy with her laudable endeavor,
she met with full success. Such portions of the
debt as they could not pay, Harry and Hammond
were to become answerable for; and as the business
of the King's Arms had once been a profitable
one, there was every reason to hope that the
young man might lure back the customers, in
process of time release his father-in-law from
his bond, and find himself a free and prosperous
man.
</p>

<p>
Thus much done, there was no time to be lost.
Jackson, well and drunk, might refuse to do what
Jackson, sick and sober, had consented to do; so
a place was found for himself and his wife, in a
part of the country inhabited by her relations, in
order that, as she said, if Jackson kept on drinking,
she might not be quite alone in the world.
Arrangements were then made for the marriage
of the young people.
</p>

<p>
And what said Hammond to all this? He
wrote home that he would consent to any thing
his wife proposed, and he hoped it might answer
as well as she expected. Hannah was sure it
would; but, in order to avoid the possibility of
mischief, she arranged that her husband should
not return until the eve of the wedding; while
she had made it a condition that Jackson should
depart immediately after it; thus excluding all
possibility of a renewal of intercourse.
</p>

<p>
On a fine evening in June, the mother and
daughter sat under the porch, hand-in-hand,
watching for the coach that was to drop George
at the door. How happy they were! Harry had
just left them, in order to spend the last evening
with his poor mother, and, as he said, to have an
eye to his father's proceedings. Young George
was still at his country house; but he was to
have a holiday the next day, and to be present
at the wedding.
</p>

<p>
At length there was a sound of wheels, and
<q>Here's the coach!</q> cried both the women, as
the well-loaded vehicle turned round a corner of
the road, and appeared in sight. But, to their
disappointment, instead of pulling up, the driver
only flung down the old portmanteau, and pointed
with his thumb toward the town, intimating
that he had dropt the owner of it, there, as he
passed.
</p>

<p>
Hannah turned pale. Why had he not come
on with the coach? Had he fallen in with Jackson?
Her heart sunk within her.
</p>

<p>
Esther hoped better things; she doubted not
that her father had business in the town; but he
must know how anxious they would be to see
him, and he would surely come soon. Yet, hour
after hour slipped by, and he came not. One
went to the door, then the other, then the first
again, and so on; but no George Hammond appeared.
At length, when it was getting quite
dusk, they did discern somebody coming toward
them with an unsteady step&mdash;they saw the figure
reel as it approached, before they could distinguish
the features, and they turned sick at heart.
Hannah groaned, and Esther, grasping her arm,
said, <q>Oh mother! mother!</q>
</p>

<p>
But when the person drew near, they perceived
that it was not Hammond, but Jackson; and,
for a moment, the sight of him, unwelcome object
as he was, almost gave them pleasure; it
was a relief to find it was not George. But he
would come, no doubt, and presently; was probably
not far off; and there was the tempter waiting
for him.
</p>

<p>
Angry and disgusted, the two women went
into the house, and shut the door. After an irrepressible
burst of tears, Hannah bethought herself
of sending a lad they kept as hostler, along
the road, to try and meet Hammond, and to
smuggle him into the house by the back way.
The boy went; but, after walking until he was
tired, returned, saying he had been to the town,
but could see nothing of master. He had, however,
met Mr. Harry, who had promised to go in
search of him, and bring him home. Finding
Jackson sound asleep, and not likely to move,
Hannah sent her daughter, and the maid, and
the boy to bed, resolving to sit up herself, that
she might be ready to admit George when he
came. Alas! in what state would he arrive?
</p>

<p>
To-morrow was his daughter's wedding-day,
and as Hannah thought of all they had suffered,
the love&mdash;that had been flooding from her woman's
heart toward her husband returning to her,
as she had fondly hoped, to live purely and virtuously
the rest of their days&mdash;was turned into
bitterness and wrath.
</p>

<p>
It was a weary night as she sat listening to
the ticking of the clock, and the slow hours as
they struck, until the dawn broke, and then she
peeped out to see if Jackson were still at the
door. Yes, there he was fast asleep. A pretty
condition he would be in to go to church with
his son! However, he would be sober when he
awoke; and sick at heart, and sad, she went upstairs
and stretched herself on the bed beside her
daughter.
</p>

<p>
But she could not sleep; her mind was anxious,
and her ears were on the stretch for her
profligate; and by-and-by the sparrows on the
house-top began to chirp, and the market-carts
rolled by on their way to the town, and the laborers'
heavy shoes tramped along to the fields
where their work lay; and still there was no
George! No George! and so, at length, she fell
asleep.
</p>

<p>
She had slept about a couple of hours when
she was awakened by Esther's voice. <q>Mother!</q>
cried the girl, <q>there's father at the door. You'd
better go yourself and let him in!</q> <q>I will!</q>
said Hannah, hastily getting out of bed and throwing
<pb n='525'/><anchor id='Pg525'/>
on some clothes&mdash;<q>I will;</q> and she folded
her lips with an expression of bitterness.
</p>

<p>
<q>Don't be too hard upon him, mother,</q> said
Esther&mdash;<q>it's the last time, for Jackson will be
gone to-morrow;</q> and while her mother descended
the stairs, the young girl arose, with her heart
full of love and happiness&mdash;for how could she be
sad when that very day was to make her Harry's
wife? Her wedding finery was all laid out ready
to put on, and she was inspecting it with the innocent
vanity of eighteen, when she was startled
by a scream&mdash;another and another&mdash;and it was
her mother's voice! Pale and transfixed with
terror, she stood with her hands pressed upon
her bosom, to still her heart's beating. What
could have happened? Then she heard other
voices below&mdash;men's voices; and with trembling
hands, she tried to dress herself, that she might
go down and inquire. Suddenly, one cried out,
<q>Where's Esther? Where's my sister?</q> There
was a hasty foot upon the stairs, and George, her
brother, pale as death, haggard, disheveled, rushed
into the room.
</p>

<p>
Then there was the tramp of many feet below,
and Esther rushed to the door; but George caught
her in his arms.
</p>

<p>
<q>Wait!</q> he said, <q>and I'll tell you all. Jackson
got hold of my father last night and made
him drink&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>We know it; but Harry! Oh, where's
Harry?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Harry heard of it, and told me; and we went
to seek him, he one way, I another. It was not
till about two hours ago, I heard that father had
not long left the Plough, in James-street, and
that Harry had been there directly afterward,
and gone in pursuit of him; so, being very anxious,
I thought I would come on here to see if
he was arrived.</q> And here the poor boy's sobs
choked his utterance.
</p>

<p>
<q>And has any thing happened to my father!</q>
said Esther.
</p>

<p>
<q>When I got near the Mill-dam,</q> continued
George, <q>I saw two or three of the millers looking
into the water&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>My poor father! He's drowned!</q> said Esther,
clasping her hands.
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes,</q> said George, hesitating; <q>whether he
was seized with delirium, or whether remorse got
the better of him, and he was ashamed to come
home, there's no telling&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But where's Harry?</q> cried the girl; for
George hesitated again.
</p>

<p>
<q>He must have overtaken my father, and seen
the accident&mdash;or must have been trying to prevent
his throwing himself in the water&mdash;for poor
Harry&mdash;!</q> And then there was the tramp of
more feet below, and another weight was carried
through the passage. <q>I had him brought here,
Esther. I knew you'd wish it&mdash;and he would
have wished it too!</q>
</p>

<p>
This was Esther Hammond's wedding-day!
Was not this sorrow enough for one poor house?
</p>

<p>
Violent in her feelings and affections, Hannah
never recovered. Her reason became impaired,
and she was released from her sufferings by a
death that none could venture to lament. Jackson's
creditors having laid claim to the whole of
the property, in consequence of Hammond's bond,
the young people, eager to fly the scene of so
much woe, took the advice of their friend, Mr.
Grindlay, and came to seek a maintenance in
London.
</p>

<p>
So ends my tragic little story. I have only to
add, that the proposed plan of emigration was
carried out, to the infinite advantage of the two
young people, and very much to the satisfaction
of Mr. Jameson.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>My Novel; Or, Varieties In English
Life.<note place='foot'>Continued from the February Number</note></head>

<div>
<head>Book IV.&mdash;<hi rend='smallcaps'>Continued</hi>.&mdash;Chapter IX.</head>

<p>
With a slow step and an abstracted air, Harley
L'Estrange bent his way toward Egerton's
house, after his eventful interview with
Helen. He had just entered one of the streets
leading into Grosvenor-square, when a young
man, walking quickly from the opposite direction,
came full against him, and drawing back
with a brief apology, recognized him, and exclaimed,
<q>What! you in England, Lord L'Estrange!
Accept my congratulations on your
return. But you seem scarcely to remember me.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I beg your pardon, Mr. Leslie. I remember
you now by your smile; but you are of an
age in which it is permitted me to say that you
look older than when I saw you last.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And yet, Lord L'Estrange, it seems to me
that you look younger.</q>
</p>

<p>
Indeed, this reply was so far true that there
appeared less difference of years than before between
Leslie and L'Estrange; for the wrinkles
in the schemer's mind were visible in his visage,
while Harley's dreamy worship of Truth and
Beauty seemed to have preserved to the votary
the enduring youth of the divinities.
</p>

<p>
Harley received the compliment with a supreme
indifference, which might have been suitable
to a Stoic, but which seemed scarcely natural
to a gentleman who had just proposed to a
lady many years younger than himself.
</p>

<p>
Leslie resumed&mdash;<q>Perhaps you are on your
way to Mr. Egerton's. If so, you will not find
him at home; he is at his office.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Thank you. Then to his office I must redirect
my steps.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I am going to him myself,</q> said Randal,
hesitatingly.
</p>

<p>
L'Estrange had no prepossessions in favor of
Leslie, from the little he had seen of that young
gentleman; but Randal's remark was an appeal
to his habitual urbanity, and he replied with well-bred
readiness, <q>Let us be companions so far.</q>
</p>

<p>
Randal accepted the arm proffered to him;
and Lord L'Estrange, as is usual with one long
absent from his native land, bore part as a questioner
in the dialogue that ensued.
</p>

<p>
<q>Egerton is always the same man, I suppose&mdash;too
busy for illness, and too firm for sorrow?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>If he ever feel either he will never stoop to
<pb n='526'/><anchor id='Pg526'/>
complain. But indeed, my dear Lord, I should
like much to know what you think of his health.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>How? You alarm me!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Nay, I did not mean to do that; and, pray,
do not let him know that I went so far. But I
have fancied that he looks a little worn and
suffering.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Poor Audley!</q> said L'Estrange, in a tone
of deep affection. <q>I will sound him, and, be
assured, without naming you; for I know well
how little he likes to be supposed capable of
human infirmity. I am obliged to you for your
hint&mdash;obliged to you for your interest in one so
dear to me.</q>
</p>

<p>
And Harley's voice was more cordial to Randal
than it had ever been before. He then began
to inquire what Randal thought of the rumors
that had reached himself as to the probable
defeat of the government, and how far Audley's
spirits were affected by such risks. But Randal
here, seeing that Harley could communicate nothing,
was reserved and guarded.
</p>

<p>
<q>Loss of office could not, I think, affect a man
like Audley,</q> observed Lord L'Estrange. <q>He
would be as great in opposition&mdash;perhaps greater;
and as to emoluments&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>The emoluments are good,</q> interposed Randal,
with, a half sigh.
</p>

<p>
<q>Good enough, I suppose, to pay him back
about a tenth of what his place costs our magnificent
friend&mdash;no, I will say one thing for English
statesmen, no man among them ever yet
was the richer for place.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And Mr. Egerton's private fortune must be
large, I take for granted,</q> said Randal, carelessly.
</p>

<p>
<q>It ought to be, if he has time look to it.</q>
</p>

<p>
Here they passed by the hotel in which lodged
the Count di Peschiera.
</p>

<p>
Randal stopped. <q>Will you excuse me for
an instant? As we are passing this hotel, I
will just leave my card here.</q> So saying, he
gave his card to a waiter lounging by the door.
<q>For the Count di Peschiera,</q> said he, aloud.
</p>

<p>
L'Estrange started; and as Randal again
took his arm, said,
</p>

<p>
<q>So that Italian lodges here? and you know
him?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I know him but slightly, as one knows any
foreigner who makes a sensation.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>He makes a sensation?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Naturally; for he is handsome, witty, and
said to be very rich&mdash;that is, as long as he receives
the revenues of his exiled kinsman.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I see you are well informed, Mr. Leslie.
And what is supposed to bring hither the Count
di Peschiera?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I did hear something, which I did not quite
understand, about a bet of his that he would
marry his kinsman's daughter; and so, I conclude,
secure to himself all the inheritance; and
that he is therefore here to discover the kinsman
and win the heiress. But probably you know
the rights of the story, and can tell me what
credit to give to such gossip.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I know this, at least, that if he did lay such
a wager, I would advise you to take any odds
against him that his backers may give,</q> said
L'Estrange, drily; and while his lip quivered
with anger, his eye gleamed with arch, ironical
humor.
</p>

<p>
<q>You think, then, that this poor kinsman will
not need such an alliance in order to regain his
estates?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes; for I never yet knew a rogue whom I
would not bet against, when he backed his own
luck as a rogue against Justice and Providence.</q>
</p>

<p>
Randal winced, and felt as if an arrow had
grazed his heart; but he soon recovered.
</p>

<p>
<q>And, indeed, there is another vague rumor
that the young lady in question is married already&mdash;to
some Englishman.</q>
</p>

<p>
This time it was Harley who winced. <q>Good
Heavens! that can not be true&mdash;that would undo
all! An Englishman just at this moment! But
some Englishman of correspondent rank, I trust,
or, at least, one known for opinions opposed to
what an Austrian would call revolutionary doctrines?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I know nothing. But it was supposed, merely
a private gentleman of good family. Would
not that suffice? Can the Austrian Court dictate
a marriage to the daughter as a condition
for grace to the father?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No&mdash;not that!</q> said Harley, greatly disturbed.
<q>But put yourself in the position of
any minister to one of the great European monarchies.
Suppose a political insurgent, formidable
for station and wealth, had been proscribed,
much interest made on his behalf, a powerful
party striving against it, and just when the minister
is disposed to relent, he hears that the heiress
to this wealth and this station is married to
the native of a country in which sentiments
friendly to the very opinions for which the insurgent
was proscribed are popularly entertained,
and thus that the fortune to be restored may
be so employed as to disturb the national security&mdash;the
existing order of things; this, too, at the
very time when a popular revolution has just
occurred in France,<note place='foot'>As there have been so many revolutions in France, it
may be convenient to suggest that, according to the dates
of this story, Harley, no doubt, alludes to that revolution
which exiled Charles X. and placed Louis Philippe on the
throne.</note> and its effects are felt most
in the very land of the exile:&mdash;suppose all this,
and then say if any thing could be more untoward
for the hopes of the banished man, or furnish his
adversaries with stronger arguments against the
restoration of his fortune? But, pshaw&mdash;this
must be a chimera! If true, I should have known
of it.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I quite agree with your lordship&mdash;there can
be no truth in such a rumor. Some Englishman
hearing, perhaps, of the probable pardon of the
exile, may have counted on an heiress, and spread
the report in order to keep off other candidates.
By your account, if successful in his suit, he
might fail to find an heiress in the bride?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No doubt of that. Whatever might be arranged,
I can't conceive that he would be allowed
<pb n='527'/><anchor id='Pg527'/>
to get at the fortune, though it might be
held in suspense for his children. But, indeed,
it so rarely happens that an Italian girl of high
name marries a foreigner, that we must dismiss
this notion with a smile at the long face of the
hypothetical fortune-hunter. Heaven help him,
if he exist!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Amen!</q> echoed Randal, devoutly.
</p>

<p>
<q>I hear that Peschiera's sister is returned to
England. Do you know her too?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>A little.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>My dear Mr. Leslie, pardon me if I take
a liberty not warranted by our acquaintance.
Against the lady I say nothing. Indeed, I have
heard some things which appear to entitle her
to compassion and respect. But as to Peschiera,
all who prize honor, suspect him to be a knave&mdash;I
know him to be one. Now, I think that the
longer we preserve that abhorrence for knavery
which is the generous instinct of youth, why, the
fairer will be our manhood, and the more reverend
our age. You agree with me?</q> And Harley
suddenly turning, his eyes fell like a flood
of light upon Randal's pale and secret countenance.
</p>

<p>
<q>To be sure,</q> murmured the schemer.
</p>

<p>
Harley surveying him, mechanically recoiled,
and withdrew his arm.
</p>

<p>
Fortunately for Randal, who somehow or
other felt himself slipped into a false position,
he scarce knew how or why, he was here seized
by the arm; and a clear, open, manly voice cried,
<q>My dear fellow, how are you? I see you are
engaged now; but look into my rooms when you
can, in the course of the day.</q>
</p>

<p>
And with a bow of excuse for his interruption,
to Lord L'Estrange, the speaker was then turning
away, when Harley said:
</p>

<p>
<q>No, don't let me take you from your friend,
Mr. Leslie. And you need not be in a hurry to
see Egerton; for I shall claim the privilege of
older friendship for the first interview.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>It is Mr. Egerton's nephew, Frank Hazeldean.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Pray, call him back, and present me to him.
He has a face that would have gone far to reconcile
Timon to Athens.</q>
</p>

<p>
Randal obeyed; and after a few kindly words
to Frank, Harley insisted on leaving the two
young men together, and walked on to Downing-street
with a brisker step.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>Chapter X.</head>

<p>
<q>That Lord L'Estrange seems a very good
fellow.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>So-so; an effeminate humorist; says the
most absurd things, and fancies them wise.
Never mind him. You wanted to speak to me,
Frank?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes; I am so obliged to you for introducing
me to Levy. I must tell you how handsomely
he has behaved.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Stop; allow me to remind you that I did not
introduce you to Levy; you had met him before
at Borrowell's, if I recollect right, and he dined
with us at the Clarendon&mdash;that is all I had to do
with bringing you together. Indeed, I rather
cautioned you against him than not. Pray, don't
think I introduced you to a man who, however
pleasant, and perhaps honest, is still a moneylender.
Your father would be justly angry with
me if I had done so.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, pooh! you are prejudiced against poor
Levy. But, just hear: I was sitting very ruefully,
thinking over those cursed bills, and how
the deuce I should renew them, when Levy
walked into my rooms; and after telling me of
his long friendship for my uncle Egerton, and
his admiration for yourself, and (give me your
hand, Randal) saying how touched he felt by
your kind sympathy in my troubles, he opened
his pocket-book, and showed me the bills safe
and sound in his own possession.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>How?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>He had bought them up. <q>It must be so
disagreeable to me,</q> he said, <q>to have them flying
about the London money-market, and these
Jews would be sure sooner or later to apply to
my father. And now,</q> added Levy, <q>I am in no
immediate hurry for the money, and we must
put the interest upon fairer terms.</q> In short,
nothing could be more liberal than his tone.
And he says, <q>he is thinking of a way to relieve
me altogether, and will call about it in a few
days, when his plan is matured.</q> After all, I
must owe this to you, Randal. I dare swear
you put it into his head.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>O no, indeed! On the contrary, I still say,
'Be cautious in all your dealings with Levy.'
I don't know, I'm sure, what he means to propose.
Have you heard from the Hall lately?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes&mdash;to-day. Only think&mdash;the Riccaboccas
have disappeared. My mother writes me word
of it&mdash;a very odd letter. She seems to suspect
that I know where they are, and reproaches me
for <q>mystery</q>&mdash;quite enigmatical. But there is
one sentence in her letter&mdash;see, here it is in the
postscript&mdash;which seems to refer to Beatrice:
<q>I don't ask you to tell me your secrets, Frank,
but Randal will no doubt have assured you that
my first consideration will be for your own happiness,
in any matter in which your heart is
really engaged.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes,</q> said Randal, slowly: <q>no doubt, this
refers to Beatrice; but, as I told you, your
mother will not interfere one way or the other&mdash;such
interference would weaken her influence
with the Squire. Besides, as she said, she can't
<emph>wish</emph> you to marry a foreigner; though once
married, she would&mdash;But how do you stand now
with the Marchesa? Has she consented to accept
you?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Not quite: indeed, I have not actually proposed.
Her manner, though much softened, has
not so far emboldened me; and, besides, before
a positive declaration, I certainly must go down
to the Hall, and speak at least to my mother.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You must judge for yourself, but don't do
any thing rash: talk first to me. Here we are
at my office. Good-by; and&mdash;and pray believe
<pb n='528'/><anchor id='Pg528'/>
that, in whatever you do with Levy, I have no
hand in it.</q>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>Chapter XI.</head>

<p>
Toward the evening, Randal was riding fast
on the road to Norwood. The arrival of Harley,
and the conversation that had passed between
that nobleman and Randal, made the latter
anxious to ascertain how far Riccabocca
was likely to learn L'Estrange's return to England,
and to meet with him. For he felt that,
should the latter come to know that Riccabocca,
in his movements, had gone by Randal's advice,
Harley would find that Randal had spoken to
him disingenuously; and, on the other hand,
Riccabocca, placed under the friendly protection
of Lord L'Estrange, would no longer need
Randal Leslie to defend him from the machinations
of Peschiera. To a reader happily unaccustomed
to dive into the deep and mazy recesses
of a schemer's mind, it might seem that
Randal's interest, in retaining a hold over the
exile's confidence, would terminate with the assurances
that had reached him, from more than
one quarter, that Violante might cease to be an
heiress if she married himself. <q>But, perhaps,</q>
suggests some candid and youthful conjecturer&mdash;<q>perhaps
Randal Leslie is in love with this
fair creature?</q> Randal in love! no! He was
too absorbed by harder passions for that blissful
folly. Nor, if he could have fallen in love, was
Violante the one to attract that sullen, secret
heart; her instinctive nobleness, the very stateliness
of her beauty, womanlike though it was,
awed him. Men of that kind may love some
soft slave&mdash;they can not lift their eyes to a
queen. They may look down&mdash;they can not
look up. But, on the one hand, Randal could
not resign altogether the <emph>chance</emph> of securing a
fortune that would realize his most dazzling
dreams, upon the mere assurance, however
probable, which had so dismayed him; and, on
the other hand, should he be compelled to relinquish
all idea of such alliance, though he did not
contemplate the base perfidy of actually assisting
Peschiera's avowed designs, still, if Frank's
marriage with Beatrice should absolutely depend
upon her brother's obtaining the knowledge
of Violante's retreat, and that marriage should
be as conducive to his interests as he thought
he could make it, why&mdash;he did not then push
his deductions farther, even to himself&mdash;they
seemed too black; but he sighed heavily, and
that sigh foreboded how weak would be honor
and virtue against avarice and ambition. Therefore,
on all accounts, Riccabocca was one of
those cards in a sequence, which so calculating
a player would not throw out of his hand: it
<emph>might</emph> serve for repique at the worst&mdash;it might
score well in the game. Intimacy with the
Italian was still part and parcel in that knowledge
which was the synonym of power.
</p>

<p>
While the young man was thus meditating,
on his road to Norwood, Riccabocca and his
Jemima were close conferring in their drawing-room.
And if you could have there seen them,
reader, you would have been seized with equal
surprise and curiosity; for some extraordinary
communication had certainly passed between
them. Riccabocca was evidently much agitated,
and with emotions not familiar to him. The
tears stood in his eyes at the same time that a
smile, the reverse of cynical or sardonic, curved
his lips; while his wife was leaning her head
on his shoulder, her hand clasped in his, and, by
the expression of her face, you might guess that
he had paid her some very gratifying compliment,
of a nature more genuine and sincere than those
which characterized his habitual hollow and dissimulating
gallantry. But just at this moment
Giacomo entered, and Jemima, with her native
English modesty, withdrew in haste from Riccabocca's
sheltering side.
</p>

<p>
<q>Padrone,</q> said Giacomo, who, whatever his
astonishment at the connubial position he had
disturbed, was much too discreet to betray it&mdash;<q>Padrone,
I see the young Englishman riding
toward the house, and I hope, when he arrives,
you will not forget the alarming information I
gave to you this morning.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Ah&mdash;ah!</q> said Riccabocca, his face falling.
</p>

<p>
<q>If the Signorina were but married!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>My very thought&mdash;my constant thought!</q>
exclaimed Riccabocca. <q>And you really believe
the young Englishman loves her?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Why else should he come, Excellency?</q>
asked Giacomo, with great <foreign rend='italic'>navet</foreign>.
</p>

<p>
<q>Very true; why, indeed?</q> said Riccabocca.
<q>Jemima, I can not endure the terrors I suffer
on that poor child's account. I will open myself
frankly to Randal Leslie. And now, too,
that which might have been a serious consideration,
in case I return to Italy, will no longer
stand in our way, Jemima.</q>
</p>

<p>
Jemima smiled faintly, and whispered something
to Riccabocca, to which he replied&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<q>Nonsense, <foreign rend='italic'>anima mia</foreign>.
I know it <emph>will</emph> be&mdash;have
not a doubt of it. I tell you it is as nine
to four, according to the nicest calculations. I
will speak at once to Randal. He is too young&mdash;too
timid to speak himself.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Certainly,</q> interposed Giacomo; <q>how could
he dare to speak, let him love ever so well?</q>
</p>

<p>
Jemima shook her head.
</p>

<p>
<q>O, never fear,</q> said Riccabocca, observing
this gesture; <q>I will give him the trial. If he
entertain but mercenary views, I shall soon detect
them. I know human nature pretty well, I
think, my love; and, Giacomo&mdash;just get me my
Machiavel&mdash;that's right. Now, leave me, my
dear; I must reflect and prepare myself.</q>
</p>

<p>
When Randal entered the house, Giacomo,
with a smile of peculiar suavity, ushered him
into the drawing-room. He found Riccabocca
alone, and seated before the fire-place, leaning
his face on his hand, with the great folio of
Machiavel lying open on the table.
</p>

<p>
The Italian received him as courteously as
usual; but there was in his manner a certain
serious and thoughtful dignity, which was, perhaps,
<pb n='529'/><anchor id='Pg529'/>
the more imposing, because but rarely assumed.
After a few preliminary observations,
Randal remarked that Frank Hazeldean had informed
him of the curiosity which the disappearance
of the Riccaboccas had excited at the Hall,
and inquired carelessly if the Doctor had left instructions
as to the forwarding of any letters that
might be directed to him at the Casino.
</p>

<p>
<q>Letters,</q> said Riccabocca, simply&mdash;<q>I never
receive any; or, at least, so rarely, that it was
not worth while to take an event so little to be
expected into consideration. No; if any letters
do reach the Casino, there they will wait.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Then I can see no possibility of indiscretion;
no chance of a clew to your address.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No I either.</q>
</p>

<p>
Satisfied so far, and knowing that it was not
in Riccabocca's habits to read the newspapers,
by which he might otherwise have learnt of
L'Estrange's arrival in London, Randal then
proceeded to inquire, with much seeming interest,
into the health of Violante&mdash;hoped it did not
suffer by confinement, &amp;c. Riccabocca eyed
him gravely while he spoke, and then suddenly
rising, that air of dignity to which I have before
referred, became yet more striking.
</p>

<p>
<q>My young friend,</q> said he, <q>hear me attentively,
and answer me frankly. I know human
nature.</q>&mdash;Here a slight smile of proud complacency
passed the sage's lips, and his eye glanced
toward his Machiavel.
</p>

<p>
<q>I know human nature&mdash;at least I have studied
it,</q> he renewed, more earnestly, and with less
evident self-conceit, <q>and I believe that when a
perfect stranger to me exhibits an interest in
my affairs, which occasions him no small trouble&mdash;an
interest (continued the wise man, laying
his hand upon Randal's shoulder) which scarcely
a son could exceed, he must be under the influence
of some strong personal motive.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, sir!</q> cried Randal, turning a shade
more pale, and with a faltering tone. Riccabocca
surveyed him with the tenderness of a superior
being, and pursued his deductive theories.
</p>

<p>
<q>In your case, what is that motive? Not
political; for I conclude you share the opinions
of your government, and those opinions have not
favored mine. Not that of pecuniary or ambitious
calculations; for how can such calculations enlist
you on behalf of a ruined exile? What remains?
Why the motive which at your age is
ever the most natural, and the strongest. I don't
blame you. Machiavel himself allows that such
a motive has swayed the wisest minds, and overturned
the most solid states. In a word, young
man, you are in love, and with my daughter
Violante.</q>
</p>

<p>
Randal was so startled by this direct and
unexpected charge upon his own masked batteries,
that he did not even attempt his defense.
His head drooped on his breast, and he remained
speechless.
</p>

<p>
<q>I do not doubt,</q> resumed the penetrating
judge of human nature, <q>that you would have
been withheld by the laudable and generous
scruples which characterize your happy age,
from voluntarily disclosing to me the state of
your heart. You might suppose that, proud of
the position I once held, or sanguine in the hope
of regaining my inheritance, I might be over-ambitious
in my matrimonial views for Violante;
or that you, anticipating my restoration to honors
and fortune, might seem actuated by the
last motives which influence love and youth;
and therefore, my dear young friend, I have departed
from the ordinary custom in England,
and adopted a very common one in my own
country. With us, a suitor seldom presents
himself till he is assured of the consent of a
father. I have only to say this&mdash;If I am right,
and you love my daughter, my first object in life
is to see her safe and secure; and, in a word&mdash;you
understand me.</q>
</p>

<p>
Now, mightily may it comfort and console us
ordinary mortals, who advance no pretense to
superior wisdom and ability, to see the huge
mistakes made by both these very sagacious
personages&mdash;Dr. Riccabocca, valuing himself on
his profound acquaintance with character, and
Randal Leslie, accustomed to grope into every
hole and corner of thought and action, wherefrom
to extract that knowledge which is power!
For whereas the sage, judging not only by his
own heart in youth, but by the general influence
of the master-passion of the young, had ascribed
to Randal sentiments wholly foreign to that able
diplomatist's nature, so no sooner had Riccabocca
brought his speech to a close, than Randal,
judging also by his own heart, and by the
general laws which influence men of the mature
age and boasted worldly wisdom of the pupil
of Machiavel, instantly decided that Riccabocca
presumed upon his youth and inexperience, and
meant most nefariously to take him in.
</p>

<p>
<q>The poor youth!</q> thought Riccabocca, <q>how
unprepared he is for the happiness I give him!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>The cunning old Jesuit!</q> thought Randal;
<q>he has certainly learned, since we met last,
that he has no chance of regaining his patrimony,
and so he wants to impose on me the
hand of a girl without a shilling. What other
motive can he possibly have? Had his daughter
the remotest probability of becoming the greatest
heiress in Italy, would he dream of bestowing
her on me in this off-hand way? The thing
stands to reason.</q>
</p>

<p>
Actuated by his resentment at the trap thus
laid for him, Randal was about to disclaim altogether
the disinterested and absurd affection laid
to his charge, when it occurred to him that, by
so doing, he might mortally offend the Italian&mdash;since
the cunning never forgive those who refuse
to be duped by them&mdash;and it might still be
conducive to his interest to preserve intimate
and familiar terms with Riccabocca; therefore,
subduing his first impulse, he exclaimed,
</p>

<p>
<q>O, too generous man; pardon me if I have
so long been unable to express my amaze, my
gratitude; but I can not&mdash;no, I can not, while
your prospects remain thus uncertain, avail myself
<pb n='530'/><anchor id='Pg530'/>
of your&mdash;of your inconsiderate magnanimity.
Your rare conduct can only redouble my own
scruples, if you, as I firmly hope and believe, are
restored to your great possessions&mdash;you would
naturally look so much higher than me. Should
those hopes fail, then, indeed, it may be different;
yet, even then, what position, what fortune,
have <emph>I</emph> to offer to your daughter worthy of her?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You are well born: all gentlemen are
equals,</q> said Riccabocca, with a sort of easy
nobleness. <q rend='pre'>You have youth, information, talent&mdash;sources
of certain wealth in this happy
country&mdash;powerful connections; and, in fine, if
you are satisfied with marrying for love, I shall
be contented;&mdash;if not, speak openly. As to the
restoration to my possessions, I can scarcely
think that probable while my enemy lives. And
even in that case, since I saw you last, something
has occurred</q> (added Riccabocca with a
strange smile, which seemed to Randal singularly
sinister and malignant) <q>that may remove
all difficulties. Meanwhile, do not think me so
extravagantly magnanimous&mdash;do not underrate
the satisfaction I must feel at knowing Violante
safe from the designs of Peschiera&mdash;safe, and for
ever, under a husband's roof. I will tell you an
Italian proverb&mdash;it contains a truth full of wisdom
and terror:</q>
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<q><q>Hai cinquanta Amici?&mdash;non basta&mdash;hai un Nemico?&mdash;
troppo.<note place='foot'>Have you fifty friends?&mdash;it is not enough. Have you
one enemy?&mdash;it is too much.</note></q></q>
</quote>

<p>
<q>Something has occurred!</q> echoed Randal,
not heeding the conclusion of this speech, and
scarcely hearing the proverb which the sage delivered
in his most emphatic and tragic tone.
<q>Something has occurred! My dear friend, be
plainer. What has occurred?</q> Riccabocca remained
silent. <q>Something that induces you to
bestow your daughter on me?</q>
</p>

<p>
Riccabocca nodded, and emitted a low
chuckle.
</p>

<p>
<q>The very laugh of a fiend,</q> muttered Randal.
<q>Something that makes her not worth bestowing.
He betrays himself. Cunning people
always do.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Pardon me,</q> said the Italian at last, <q>if I do
not answer your question; you will know later;
but, at present, this is a family secret. And now
I must turn to another and more alarming cause
for my frankness to you.</q> Here Riccabocca's
face changed, and assumed an expression of
mingled rage and fear. <q>You must know,</q> he
added, sinking his voice, <q>that Giacomo has
seen a strange person loitering about the house,
and looking up at the windows; and he has no
doubt&mdash;nor have I&mdash;that this is some spy or emissary
of Peschiera's.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Impossible; how could he discover you?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I know not; but no one else has any interest
in doing so. The man kept at a distance,
and Giacomo could not see his face.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>It may be but a mere idler. Is this all?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No; the old woman who serves us said that
she was asked at a shop <q>if we were not Italians?</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And she answered?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q><q>No;</q> but owned that <q>we had a foreign
servant, Giacomo.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I will see to this. Rely on it that if Peschiera
has discovered you, I will learn it. Nay, I
will hasten from you in order to commence inquiry.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I can not detain you. May I think that we
have now an interest in common?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>O, indeed yes; but&mdash;but&mdash;your daughter!
how can I dream that one so beautiful, so peerless,
will confirm the hope you have extended to
me?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>The daughter of an Italian is brought up to
consider that it is a father's right to dispose of
her hand?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But the heart?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q><hi rend='italic'>Cospetto!</hi></q> said the Italian, true to his infamous
notions as to the sex, <q>the heart of a girl
is like a convent&mdash;the holier the cloister, the
more charitable the door.</q>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>Chapter XII.</head>

<p>
Randal had scarcely left the house, before
Mrs. Riccabocca, who was affectionately anxious
in all that concerned Violante, rejoined her
husband.
</p>

<p>
<q>I like the young man very well,</q> said the
sage&mdash;<q>very well indeed. I find him just what
I expected from my general knowledge of human
nature; for as love ordinarily goes with
youth, so modesty usually accompanies talent.
He is young, <foreign rend='italic'>ergo</foreign> he is in love; he has talent,
<foreign rend='italic'>ergo</foreign> he is modest&mdash;modest and ingenuous.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And you think not in any way swayed by interest
in his affections?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Quite the contrary; and to prove him the
more, I have not said a word as to the worldly
advantages which, in any case, would accrue to
him from an alliance with my daughter. In any
case; for if I regain my country, her fortune is
assured; and if not, I trust</q> (said the poor exile,
lifting his brow with stately and becoming pride)
<q>that I am too well aware of my child's dignity as
well as my own, to ask any one to marry her to
his own worldly injury.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Eh! I don't quite understand you, Alphonso.
To be sure, your dear life is insured for her
marriage portion; but&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<q><hi rend='italic'>Pazzie</hi>&mdash;stuff!</q> said Riccabocca, petulantly;
<q>her marriage portion would be as nothing
to a young man of Randal's birth and prospects.
I think not of that. But listen; I have never
consented to profit by Harley L'Estrange's
friendship for me; my scruples would not extend
to my son-in-law. This noble friend has not
only high rank, but considerable influence&mdash;influence
with the government&mdash;influence with
Randal's patron&mdash;who, between ourselves, does
not seem to push the young man as he might do;
I judge by what Randal says. I should write,
therefore, before any thing was settled, to L'Estrange,
and I should say to him simply, <q>I never
asked you to save me from penury, but I do ask
you to save a daughter of my house from humiliation.
<pb n='531'/><anchor id='Pg531'/>
I can give to her no dowry; can her
husband owe to my friend that advance in an
honorable career&mdash;that opening to energy and
talent&mdash;which is more than a dowry to generous
ambition?</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, it is in vain you would disguise your
rank!</q> cried Jemima, with enthusiasm; <q>it
speaks in all you utter, when your passions are
moved.</q>
</p>

<p>
The Italian did not seem flattered by that eulogy.
<q>Pish!</q> said he, <q>there you are! rank
again!</q>
</p>

<p>
But Jemima was right. There was something
about her husband that was grandiose and
princely, whenever he escaped from his accursed
Machiavel, and gave fair play to his
heart.
</p>

<p>
And he spent the next hour or so in thinking
over all that he could do for Randal, and devising
for his intended son-in-law the agreeable
surprises, which Randal was at that very time
racking his yet cleverer brains to disappoint.
</p>

<p>
These plans conned sufficiently, Riccabocca
shut up his Machiavel, and hunted out of his
scanty collection of books Buffon on Man, and
various other psychological volumes, in which
he soon became deeply absorbed. Why were
these works the object of the sage's study?
Perhaps he will let us know soon, for it is clearly
a secret known to his wife; and though she
has hitherto kept one secret, that is precisely
the reason why Riccabocca would not wish long
to overburden her discretion with another.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>Chapter XIII.</head>

<p>
Randal reached home in time to dress for a
late dinner at Baron Levy's.
</p>

<p>
The Baron's style of living was of that character
especially affected both by the most acknowledged
exquisites of that day, and, it must
be owned, also, by the most egregious <foreign rend='italic'>parvenus</foreign>.
For it is noticeable that it is your <foreign rend='italic'>parvenu</foreign> who
always comes nearest in fashion (so far as externals
are concerned) to your genuine exquisite.
It is your <foreign rend='italic'>parvenu</foreign> who is most particular
as to the cut of his coat, and the precision of
his equipage, and the minuti of his <foreign rend='italic'>mnage</foreign>.
Those between the <foreign rend='italic'>parvenu</foreign> and the exquisite
who know their own consequence, and have
something solid to rest upon, are slow in following
all the caprices of fashion, and obtuse in
observation as to those niceties which neither
give them another ancestor, nor add another
thousand to the account at their banker's;&mdash;as
to the last, rather indeed the contrary! There
was a decided elegance about the Baron's house
and his dinner. If he had been one of the lawful
kings of the dandies, you would have cried,
<q>What perfect taste!</q>&mdash;but such is human nature,
that the dandies who dined with him said
to each other, <q>He pretend to imitate D&mdash;&mdash;!
vulgar dog!</q> There was little affectation of
your more showy opulence. The furniture in
the room was apparently simple, but, in truth,
costly, from its luxurious comfort&mdash;the ornaments
and china scattered about the commodes
were of curious rarity and great value; and the
pictures on the walls were gems. At dinner,
no plate was admitted on the table. The Russian
fashion, then uncommon, now more prevalent,
was adopted&mdash;fruits and flowers in old
Svres dishes of priceless <foreign rend='italic'>vertu</foreign>, and in sparkling
glass of Bohemian fabric. No lively servant
was permitted to wait; behind each guest stood
a gentleman dressed so like the guest himself,
in fine linen and simple black, that guest and
lackey seemed stereotypes from one plate.
</p>

<p>
The viands were exquisite; the wine came
from the cellars of deceased archbishops and
embassadors. The company was select; the
party did not exceed eight. Four were the
eldest sons of peers (from a baron to a duke);
one was a professed wit, never to be got without
a month's notice, and, where a <foreign rend='italic'>parvenu</foreign> was
host, a certainty of green-pease and peaches&mdash;out
of season; the sixth, to Randal's astonishment,
was Mr. Richard Avenel; himself and
the Baron made up the complement.
</p>

<p>
The eldest sons recognized each other with a
meaning smile; the most juvenile of them, indeed
(it was his first year in London), had the
grace to blush and look sheepish. The others
were more hardened; but they all united in
regarding with surprise both Randal and Dick
Avenel. The former was known to most of
them personally; and to all, by repute, as a
grave, clever, promising young man, rather prudent
than lavish, and never suspected to have
got into a scrape. What the deuce did he do
there? Mr. Avenel puzzled them yet more.
A middle-aged man, said to be in business,
whom they had observed <q>about town</q> (for he
had a noticeable face and figure)&mdash;that is, seen
riding in the park, or lounging in the pit at
the opera, but never set eyes on at a recognized
club, or in the coteries of their <q>set;</q>&mdash;a
man whose wife gave horrid third-rate parties,
that took up half-a-column in the <hi rend='italic'>Morning Post</hi>
with a list of <q>The Company Present</q>&mdash;in
which a sprinkling of dowagers out of fashion,
and a foreign title or two, made the darkness
of the obscurer names doubly dark. Why this
man should be asked to meet <emph>them</emph>, by Baron
Levy, too&mdash;a decided tuft-hunter and would-be
exclusive&mdash;called all their faculties into exercise.
The wit, who, being the son of a small
tradesman, but in the very best society, gave
himself far greater airs than the young lords,
impertinently solved the mystery. <q>Depend on
it,</q> whispered he to Spendquick&mdash;<q>depend on
it the man is the X. Y. of the <hi rend='italic'>Times</hi>, who offers
to lend any sums of money from 10 to half-a-million.
He's the man who has all your bills:
Levy is only his jackall.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>'Pon my soul,</q> said Spendquick, rather
alarmed, <q>if that's the case, one may as well
be civil to him.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q><emph>You</emph>, certainly,</q> said the wit. <q>But I never
yet found an X. Y. who would advance me the
L. s.; and, therefore, I shall not be more respectful
<pb n='532'/><anchor id='Pg532'/>
to X. Y. than to any other unknown
quantity.</q>
</p>

<p>
By degrees, as the wine circulated, the party
grew gay and sociable. Levy was really an
entertaining fellow: had all the gossip of the
town at his fingers'-ends; and possessed, moreover,
that pleasant art of saying ill-natured
things of the absent, which those present always
enjoy. By degrees, too, Mr. Richard
Avenel came out; and as the whisper had circulated
round the table that he was X. Y., he
was listened to with a profound respect, which
greatly elevated his spirits. Nay, when the wit
tried once to show him up, or mystify him, Dick
answered with a bluff spirit, that, though very
coarse, was found so humorous by Lord Spendquick
and other gentlemen similarly situated in
the money-market, that they turned the laugh
against the wit, and silenced him for the rest
of the night&mdash;a circumstance which made the
party go off much more pleasantly. After dinner,
the conversation, quite that of single men,
easy and <foreign rend='italic'>dbonnair</foreign>, glanced from the turf, and
the ballet, and the last scandal, toward politics;
for the times were such that politics were discussed
every where, and three of the young
lords were county members.
</p>

<p>
Randal said little, but, as was his wont, listened
attentively; and he was aghast to find
how general was the belief that the government
was doomed. Out of regard to him, and with
that delicacy of breeding which belongs to a
certain society, nothing personal to Egerton was
said, except by Avenel, who, however, on blurting
out some rude expressions respecting that
minister, was instantly checked by the Baron.
</p>

<p>
<q>Spare my friend, and Mr. Leslie's near connection,</q>
said he, with a polite but grave smile.
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh,</q> said Avenel, <q>public men, whom we
pay, are public property&mdash;aren't they, my lord?</q>
appealing to Spendquick.
</p>

<p>
<q>Certainly,</q> said Spendquick, with great
spirit&mdash;<q>public property, or why should we pay
them? There must be a very strong motive to
induce us to do that! I hate paying people. In
fact,</q> he subjoined, in an aside, <q>I never do!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>However,</q> resumed Mr. Avenel. graciously,
<q>I don't want to hurt your feelings, Mr. Leslie.
As to the feelings of our host, the Baron, I calculate
that they have got tolerably tough by the
exercise they have gone through.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Nevertheless,</q> said the Baron, joining in the
laugh which any lively saying by the supposed
X. Y. was sure to excite&mdash;<q>nevertheless, 'love
me, love my dog,' love me, love my Egerton.</q>
</p>

<p>
Randal started, for his quick ear and subtle
intelligence caught something sinister and hostile
in the tone with which Levy uttered this
equivocal comparison, and his eye darted toward
the Baron. But the Baron had bent down his
face, and was regaling himself upon an olive.
</p>

<p>
By-and-by the party rose from table. The
four young noblemen had their engagements
elsewhere, and proposed to separate without re-entering
the drawing-room. As, in Goethe's
theory, monads which have affinities with each
other are irresistibly drawn together, so these
gay children of pleasure had, by a common impulse,
on rising from table, moved each to each,
and formed a group round the fire-place. Randal
stood a little apart, musing; the wit examined
the pictures through his eye-glass; and Mr.
Avenel drew the Baron toward the sideboard,
and there held him in whispered conference.
This colloquy did not escape the young gentlemen
round the fire-place: they glanced toward
each other.
</p>

<p>
<q>Settling the per centage on renewal,</q> said
one, <foreign rend='italic'>sotto voce</foreign>.
</p>

<p>
<q>X. Y. does not seem such a very bad fellow,</q>
said another.
</p>

<p>
<q>He looks rich, and talks rich,</q> said a third.
</p>

<p>
<q>A decided independent way of expressing
his sentiments; those moneyed men generally
have.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Good heavens!</q> ejaculated Spendquick, who
had been keeping his eye anxiously fixed on
the pair. <q>do look; X. Y. is actually taking out
his pocket-book; he is coming this way. Depend
on it he has got our bills&mdash;mine is due tomorrow.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And mine too,</q> said another, edging off.
<q>Why, it is a perfect <foreign rend='italic'>guet  pens</foreign>.</q>
</p>

<p>
Meanwhile, breaking away from the Baron,
who appeared anxious to detain him, and failing
in that attempt, turned aside, as if not to see
Dick's movements&mdash;a circumstance which did
did not escape the notice of the group, and confirmed
all their suspicions, Mr. Avenel, with a
serious, thoughtful air, and a slow step, approached
the group. Nor did the great Roman
general more nervously <q>flutter the dove-cotes
in Corioli,</q> than did the advance of the supposed
X. Y. agitate the bosoms of Lord Spendquick
and his sympathizing friends. Pocket-book in
hand, and apparently feeling for something formidable
within its mystic recesses, step by step
came Dick Avenel toward the fire-place. The
group stood still, fascinated by horror.
</p>

<p>
<q>Hum,</q> said Mr. Avenel, clearing his throat.
</p>

<p>
<q>I don't like that hum at all,</q> muttered
Spendquick.
</p>

<p>
<q>Proud to have made your acquaintance, gentlemen,</q>
said Dick, bowing.
</p>

<p>
The gentlemen, thus addressed, bowed low in
return.
</p>

<p>
<q>My friend the Baron thought this not exactly
the time to&mdash;</q> Dick stopped a moment; you
might have knocked down those four young gentlemen,
though four finer specimens of humanity
no aristocracy in Europe could produce&mdash;you
might have knocked them down with a feather!
<q>But,</q> renewed Avenel, not finishing his sentence,
<q>I have made it a rule in life never to lose
securing a good opportunity: in short, to make the
most of the present moment. And,</q> added he,
with a smile, which froze the blood in Lord Spendquick's
veins, <q>the rule has made me a very
warm man! Therefore, gentlemen, allow me
to present you each with one of these</q>&mdash;every
<pb n='533'/><anchor id='Pg533'/>
hand retreated behind the back of its well-born
owner&mdash;when, to the inexpressible relief of all,
Dick concluded with&mdash;<q>a little <foreign rend='italic'>soire
dansante</foreign>,</q> and extended four cards of invitation.
</p>

<p>
<q>Most happy!</q> exclaimed Spendquick. <q>I
don't dance in general; but to oblige X&mdash;&mdash; I
mean to have a better acquaintance, sir, with
<emph>you</emph>&mdash;I would dance on the tight-rope.</q>
</p>

<p>
There was a good-humored pleasant laugh at
Spendquick's enthusiasm, and a general shaking
of hands and pocketing of the invitation cards.
</p>

<p>
<q>You don't look like a dancing-man,</q> said
Avenel, turning to the wit, who was plump and
somewhat gouty&mdash;as wits who dine out five days
in the week generally are; <q>but we shall have
supper at one o'clock.</q>
</p>

<p>
Infinitely offended and disgusted, the wit replied
dryly, <q>that every hour of his time was
engaged for the rest of the season,</q> and, with a
stiff salutation to the Baron, took his departure.
The rest, in good spirits, hurried away to their
respective cabriolets; and Leslie was following
them into the hall, when the Baron, catching
hold of him, said, <q>Stay, I want to talk to you.</q>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>Chapter XIV.</head>

<p>
The Baron turned into his drawing-room, and
Leslie followed.
</p>

<p>
<q>Pleasant young men, those,</q> said Levy, with
a slight sneer, as he threw himself into an easy
chair and stirred the fire. <q>And not at all
proud; but, to be sure, they are&mdash;under great
obligations to me. Yes; they owe me a great
deal. <foreign rend='italic'>Apropos</foreign>, I have had a long talk with
Frank Hazeldean&mdash;fine young man&mdash;remarkable
capacities for business. I can arrange his affairs
for him. I find, on reference to the Will Office,
that you were quite right; the Casino property
is entailed on Frank. He will have the fee simple.
He can dispose of the reversion entirely.
So that there will be no difficulty in our arrangements.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But I told you also that Frank had scruples
about borrowing on the event of his father's
death.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Ay, you did so. Filial affection! I never take
that into account in matters of business. Such
little scruples, though they are highly honorable
to human nature, soon vanish before the prospect
of the King's Bench. And, too, as you so judiciously
remarked, our clever young friend is in
love with Madame di Negra.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Did he tell you that?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No; but Madame di Negra did.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You know her?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I know most people in good society, who
now and then require a friend in the management
of their affairs. And having made sure
of the fact you stated, as to Hazeldean's contingent
property (excuse my prudence), I have accommodated
Madame di Negra, and bought up
her debts.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You have&mdash;you surprise me!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>The surprise will vanish on reflection. But
you are very new to the world yet, my dear
Leslie. By the way, I have had an interview
with Peschiera&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>About his sister's debts?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Partly. A man of the nicest honor is Peschiera.</q>
</p>

<p>
Aware of Levy's habit of praising people for
the qualities in which, according to the judgment
of less penetrating mortals, they were most
deficient, Randal only smiled at this eulogy, and
waited for Levy to resume. But the Baron sat
silent and thoughtful for a minute or two, and
then wholly changed the subject.
</p>

<p>
<q>I think your father has some property in
&mdash;&mdash;shire, and you probably can give me a little
information as to certain estates of a Mr. Thornhill&mdash;estates
which, on examination of the title-deeds,
I find once, indeed, belonged to your family.</q>
The Baron glanced at a very elegant
memorandum book&mdash;<q>The manors of Rood and
Dulmonsberry, with sundry farms thereon. Mr.
Thornhill wants to sell them as soon as his son
is of age&mdash;an old client of mine, Thornhill. He
has applied to me on the matter. Do you think
it an improvable property?</q>
</p>

<p>
Randal listened with a livid cheek and a throbbing
heart. We have seen that, if there was
one ambitious scheme in his calculation which,
though not absolutely generous and heroic, still
might win its way to a certain sympathy in the
undebased human mind, it was the hope to restore
the fallen fortunes of his ancient house, and
repossess himself of the long alienated lands that
surrounded the dismal wastes of the mouldering
Hall. And now to hear that those lands were
getting into the inexorable gripe of Levy&mdash;tears
of bitterness stood in his eyes.
</p>

<p>
<q>Thornhill,</q> continued Levy, who watched
the young man's countenance&mdash;<q>Thornhill tells
me that that part of his property&mdash;the old Leslie
lands&mdash;produces 2000 a year, and that the rental
could be raised. He would take 50,000 for
it&mdash;20,000 down, and suffer the remaining
30,000 to lie on mortgage at four per cent. It
seems a very good purchase. What do you say?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Don't ask me,</q> said Randal, stung into rare
honesty; <q>for I had hoped I might live to repossess
myself of that property.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Ah! indeed. It would be a very great addition
to your consequence in the world&mdash;not
from the mere size of the estate, but from its
hereditary associations. And if you have any
idea of the purchase&mdash;believe me, I'll not stand
in your way.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>How can I have any idea of it?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But I thought you said you had.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I understood that these lands could not be
sold till Mr. Thornhill's son came of age, and
joined in getting rid of the entail.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes, so Thornhill himself supposed, till, on
examining the title-deeds, I found he was under
a mistake. These lands are not comprised in
the settlement made by old Jasper Thornhill,
which ties up the rest of the property. The
title will be perfect. Thornhill wants to settle
the matter at once&mdash;losses on the turf, you understand;
<pb n='534'/><anchor id='Pg534'/>
an immediate purchaser would get
still better terms. A Sir John Spratt would give
the money; but the addition of these lands would
make the Spratt property of more consequence
in the county than the Thornhill. So my client
would rather take a few thousands less from a
man who don't set up to be his rival. Balance
of power in counties as well as nations.</q>
</p>

<p>
Randal was silent.
</p>

<p>
<q>Well,</q> said Levy, with great kindness of
manner, <q>I see I pain you; and though I am
what my very pleasant guests will call a <foreign rend='italic'>parvenu</foreign>,
I comprehend your natural feelings as a gentleman
of ancient birth. <foreign rend='italic'>Parvenu!</foreign> Ah! is it
not strange, Leslie, that no wealth, no fashion,
no fame can wipe out that blot? They call me
a <foreign rend='italic'>parvenu</foreign>, and borrow my money. They call
our friend, the wit, a <foreign rend='italic'>parvenu</foreign>, and submit to all
his insolence&mdash;if they condescend to regard his
birth at all&mdash;provided they can but get him to
dinner. They call the best debater in the Parliament
of England a <foreign rend='italic'>parvenu</foreign>, and will entreat
him, some day or other, to be prime minister,
and ask him for stars and garters. A droll world,
and no wonder the <foreign rend='italic'>parvenus</foreign> want to upset it!</q>
</p>

<p>
Randal had hitherto supposed that this notorious
tuft-hunter&mdash;this dandy capitalist&mdash;this money-lender,
whose whole fortune had been wrung
from the wants and follies of an aristocracy, was
naturally a firm supporter of things as they are&mdash;how
could things be better for men like Baron
Levy? But the usurer's burst of democratic
spleen did not surprise his precocious and acute
faculty of observation. He had before remarked,
that it is the persons who fawn most upon
an aristocracy, and profit the most by the fawning,
who are ever at heart its bitterest disparagers.
Why is this? Because one full half of
democratic opinion is made up of envy; and we
can only envy what is brought before our eyes,
and what, while very near to us, is still unattainable.
No man envies an archangel.
</p>

<p>
<q>But,</q> said Levy, throwing himself back in
his chair, <q>a new order of things is commencing;
we shall see. Leslie, it is lucky for you
that you did not enter Parliament under the government;
it would be your political ruin for life.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You think that the ministry can not last?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Of course I do; and what is more, I think
that a ministry of the same principles can not
be restored. You are a young man of talent and
spirit; your birth is nothing compared to the
rank of the reigning party; it would tell, to a
certain degree, in a democratic one. I say, you
should be more civil to Avenel; he could return
you to Parliament at the next election.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>The next election! In six years! We have
just had a general election.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>There will be another before this year, or
half of it, or perhaps a quarter of it, is out.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>What makes you think so?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Leslie, let there be confidence between us;
we can help each other. Shall we be friends?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>With all my heart. But, though you may
help me, how can I help you?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You have helped me already to Frank Hazeldean&mdash;and
the Casino estate. All clever men
can help me. Come then, we are friends; and
what I say is secret. You ask me why I think
there will be a general election so soon? I will
answer you frankly. Of all the public men I
ever met with, there is no one who has so clear
a vision of things immediately before him as
Audley Egerton.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>He has that character. Not <emph>far</emph>-seeing, but
<emph>clear</emph>-sighted to a certain limit.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Exactly so. No one better, therefore, knows
public opinion, and its immediate ebb and flow.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Granted.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Egerton, then, counts on a general election
within three months; and I have lent him the
money for it.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Lent him the money! Egerton borrow money
of you&mdash;the rich Audley Egerton!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Rich!</q> repeated Levy in a tone impossible
to describe, and accompanying the word with
that movement of the middle finger and thumb,
commonly called a <q>snap,</q> which indicates profound
contempt.
</p>

<p>
He said no more. Randal sate stupefied. At
length, the latter muttered, <q>But if Egerton is
really not rich&mdash;if he lose office, and without the
hope of return to it&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>If so, he is ruined!</q> said Levy coldly; <q>and
therefore, from regard to you, and feeling interest
in your future fate, I say&mdash;Rest no hopes of
fortune or career upon Audley Egerton. Keep
your place for the present, but be prepared at
the next election to stand upon popular principles.
Avenel shall return you to parliament;
and the rest is with luck and energy. And now,
I'll not detain you longer,</q> said Levy rising and
ringing the bell. The servant entered.
</p>

<p>
<q>Is my carriage here?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes, Baron.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Can I set you down any where?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No, thank you; I prefer walking.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Adieu, then. And mind you remember the
<foreign rend='italic'>soire dansante</foreign> at Mrs. Avenel's.</q> Randal mechanically
shook the hand extended to him, and
went down the stairs.
</p>

<p>
The fresh frosty air roused his intellectual
faculties, which Levy's ominous words had almost
paralyzed.
</p>

<p>
And the first thing that the clever schemer
said to himself was this:
</p>

<p>
<q>But what can be the man's motive in what
he said to me?</q>
</p>

<p>
The next was:
</p>

<p>
<q>Egerton ruined? What am I, then?</q>
</p>

<p>
And the third was:
</p>

<p>
<q>And that fair remnant of the old Leslie property!
20,000 down&mdash;how to get the sum?
Why should Levy have spoken to me of this?</q>
</p>

<p>
And lastly, the soliloquy rounded back:&mdash;<q>The
man's motives! His motives?</q>
</p>

<p>
Meanwhile, the Baron threw himself into his
chariot&mdash;the most comfortable easy chariot you
can possibly conceive&mdash;single man's chariot&mdash;perfect
taste&mdash;no married man ever has such a
<pb n='535'/><anchor id='Pg535'/>
chariot; and in a few minutes he was at &mdash;&mdash;'s
hotel, and in the presence of Giulio Franzini,
Count di Peschiera.
</p>

<p>
<q><foreign rend='italic'>Mon cher</foreign>,</q> said the Baron in very good
French, and in a tone of the most familiar equality
with the descendant of the princes and heroes
of grand medival Italy&mdash;<q><foreign rend='italic'>Mon cher</foreign>, give me
one of your excellent cigars. I think I have put
all matters in train.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You have found out&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No; not so fast yet,</q> said the Baron, lighting
the cigar extended to him. <q>But you said
that you should be perfectly contented if it only
cost you 20,000 to marry off your sister (to
whom that sum is legally due), and to marry
yourself to the heiress.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I did, indeed.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Then I have no doubt I shall manage both
objects for that sum, if Randal Leslie really
knows where the young lady is, and can assist
you. Most promising, able man is Randal Leslie&mdash;but
innocent as a babe just born.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Ha, ha! Innocent? <foreign rend='italic'>Que diable!</foreign></q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Innocent as this cigar, <foreign rend='italic'>mon cher</foreign>&mdash;strong,
certainly, but smoked very easily. <foreign rend='italic'>Soyez tranquille!</foreign></q>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>Chapter XV.</head>

<p>
Who has not seen&mdash;who not admired, that noble
picture by Daniel Maclise, which refreshes
the immortal name of my ancestor Caxton! For
myself, while with national pride I heard the admiring
murmurs of the foreigners who grouped
around it (nothing, indeed, of which our nation
may be more proud had they seen in the Crystal
Palace)&mdash;heard with no less a pride in the generous
nature of fellow-artists, the warm applause
of living and deathless masters, sanctioning the
enthusiasm of the popular crowd; what struck
me more than the precision of drawing, for which
the artist has been always renowned, and the
just though gorgeous affluence of color which
he has more recently acquired, was the profound
depth of conception, out of which this great work
had so elaborately arisen. That monk, with his
scowl toward the printer and his back on the
Bible, over which <emph>his form casts a shadow</emph>&mdash;the
whole transition between the medival Christianity
of cell and cloister, and the modern Christianity
that rejoices in the daylight, is depicted
there, in the shadow that obscures the Book&mdash;in
the scowl that is fixed upon the Book-diffuser;
that sombre, musing face of Richard, Duke of
Gloucester, with the beauty of Napoleon, darkened
to the expression of a Fiend, looking far
and anxiously into futurity, as if foreseeing there
what antagonism was about to be created to the
schemes of secret crime and unrelenting force;
the chivalrous head of the accomplished Rivers,
seen but in profile, under his helmet, as if the
age when Chivalry must defend its noble attributes,
in steel, was already half passed away:
and, not least grand of all, the rude thews and
sinews of the artisan forced into service on the
type, and the ray of intellect, fierce, and menacing
revolutions yet to be, struggling through
his rugged features, and across his low knitted
brow; all this, which showed how deeply the
idea of the discovery in its good and its evil, its
saving light and its perilous storms, had sunk
into the artist's soul, charmed me as effecting
the exact union between sentiment and execution,
which is the true and rare consummation of
the Ideal in Art. But observe, while in these
personages of the group are depicted the deeper
and graver agencies implicated in the bright but
terrible invention&mdash;observe how little the light
epicures of the hour heed the scowl of the monk,
or the restless gesture of Richard, or the troubled
gleam in the eyes of the artisan&mdash;King Edward,
handsome <foreign rend='italic'>poco curante</foreign>, delighted, in the surprise
of a child, with a new toy; and Clarence,
with his curious yet careless glance&mdash;all the
while Caxton himself, calm, serene, untroubled,
intent solely upon the manifestation of his discovery,
and no doubt supremely indifferent whether
the first proofs of it shall be dedicated to a Rivers
or an Edward, a Richard or a Henry, Plantagenet
or Tudor&mdash;'tis all the same to that comely,
gentle-looking man. So is it ever with your
Abstract Science! not a jot cares its passionless
logic for the woe or weal of a generation or two.
The stream, once emerged from its source, passes
on into the Great Intellectual Sea, smiling over
the wretch that it drowns, or under the keel of
the ship which it serves as a slave.
</p>

<p>
Now, when about to commence the present
chapter on the Varieties of Life, this masterpiece
of thoughtful art forced itself on my recollection,
and illustrated what I designed to say.
In the surface of every age, it is often that which
but amuses, for the moment, the ordinary children
of pleasant existence, the Edwards and the
Clarences (be they kings and dukes, or simplest
of simple subjects), which afterward towers out
as the great serious epoch of the time. When
we look back upon human records, how the eye
settles upon <hi rend='smallcaps'>Writers</hi> as the main landmarks of
the past! We talk of the age of Augustus, of
Elizabeth, of Louis XIV., of Anne, as the notable
eras of the world. Why? Because it is their
writers who have made them so. Intervals between
one age of authors and another lie unnoticed,
as the flats and common lands of uncultured
history. And yet, strange to say, when these
authors are living among us, they occupy a very
small portion of our thoughts, and fill up but desultory
interstices in the bitumen and tufa wherefrom
we build up the Babylon of our lives! So
it is, and perhaps so it should be, whether it
pleases the conceit of penmen or not. Life is
meant to be active; and books, though they give
the action to future generations, administer but
to the holiday of the present.
</p>

<p>
And so, with this long preface, I turn suddenly
from the Randals and the Egertons, and the
Levys, Avenels, and Peschieras&mdash;from the plots
and passions of practical life, and drop the reader
suddenly into one of those obscure retreats wherein
Thought weaves, from unnoticed moments, a
new link to the chain that unites the ages.
</p>

<pb n='536'/><anchor id='Pg536'/>

<p>
Within a small room, the single window of
which opened on a fanciful and fairy-like garden,
that has been before described, sate a young man
alone. He had been writing: the ink was not
dry on his manuscript, but his thoughts had been
suddenly interrupted from his work, and his eyes,
now lifted from the letter which had occasioned
that interruption, sparkled with delight. <q>He
will come,</q> exclaimed the young man; <q>come
here&mdash;to the home which I owe to him. I have
not been unworthy of his friendship. And she</q>&mdash;his
breast heaved, but the joy faded from his
face. <q>Oh, strange, strange, that I feel sad at
the thought to see her again. See <emph>her</emph>&mdash;Ah no!&mdash;my
own comforting Helen&mdash;my own Child-angel!
<emph>Her</emph> I can never see again! The grown
woman&mdash;that is not my Helen. And yet&mdash;and
yet,</q> he resumed, after a pause, <q>if ever she read
the pages, in which thought flowed and trembled
under her distant starry light&mdash;if ever she see
how her image has rested with me, and feel that,
while others believe that I invent, I have but remembered&mdash;will
she not, for a moment, be my
own Helen again! Again, in heart and in fancy,
stand by my side on the desolate bridge&mdash;hand in
hand&mdash;orphans both, as we stood in the days so
sorrowful, yet, as I recall them, so sweet.&mdash;Helen
in England, it is a dream!</q>
</p>

<p>
He rose, half consciously, and went to the
window. The fountain played merrily before
his eyes, and the birds in the aviary caroled loud
to his ear. <q>And in this house,</q> he murmured,
<q>I saw her last! And there, where the fountain
now throws its stream on high&mdash;there her benefactor
and mine told me that I was to lose <emph>her</emph>,
and that I might win&mdash;fame. Alas!</q>
</p>

<p>
At this time, a woman, whose dress was somewhat
above her mien and air, which, though not
without a certain respectability, were very homey,
entered the room; and, seeing the young man
standing thus thoughtful by the window, paused.
She was used to his habits; and since his success
in life, had learned to respect them. So she did
not disturb his reverie, but began softly to
arrange the room&mdash;dusting, with the corner of
her apron, the various articles of furniture, putting
a stray chair or two in its right place, but
not touching a single paper. Virtuous woman,
and rare as virtuous!
</p>

<p>
The young man turned at last, with a deep,
yet not altogether painful sigh&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<q>My dear mother, good-day to you. Ah, you
do well to make the room look its best. Happy
news! I expect a visitor!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Dear me, Leonard, will he want? lunch&mdash;or
what?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Nay, I think not, mother. It is he to whom
we owe all&mdash;<q><foreign rend='italic'>Hc otia fecit</foreign>.</q> Pardon my Latin;
it is Lord L'Estrange.</q>
</p>

<p>
The face of Mrs. Fairfield (the reader has long
since divined the name) changed instantly, and betrayed
a nervous twitch of all the muscles, which
gave her a family likeness to old Mrs. Avenel.
</p>

<p>
<q>Do not be alarmed, mother. He is the kindest&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Don't talk so; I can't bear it!</q> cried Mrs.
Fairfield.
</p>

<p>
<q>No wonder you are affected by the recollection
of all his benefits. But when once you have
seen him, you will find yourself ever after at your
ease. And so, pray, smile and look as good as
you are; for I am proud of your open, honest look
when you are pleased, mother. And he must
see your heart in your face as I do.</q>
</p>

<p>
With this, Leonard put his arm round the
widow's neck and kissed her. She clung to him
fondly for a moment, and he felt her tremble from
head to foot. Then she broke from his embrace,
and hurried out of the room. Leonard thought
perhaps she had gone to improve her dress, or to
carry her housewife energies to the decoration
of the other rooms; for <q>the house</q> was Mrs.
Fairfield's hobby and passion; and now that she
worked no more, save for her amusement, it was
her main occupation. The hours she contrived
to spend daily in bustling about those little rooms,
and leaving every thing therein to all appearance
precisely the same, were among the marvels
in life which the genius of Leonard had
never comprehended. But she was always so
delighted when Mr. Norreys or some rare visitor
came, and said (Mr. Norreys never failed to do
so), <q>How neatly all is kept here. What could
Leonard do without you, Mrs. Fairfield?</q>
</p>

<p>
And, to Norreys's infinite amusement, Mrs.
Fairfield always returned the same answer.
<q>'Deed, sir, and thank you kindly, but 'tis my belief
that the drawin'-room would be awful dusty.</q>
</p>

<p>
Once more left alone, Leonard's mind returned
to the state of reverie, and his face assumed
the expression that had now become to it habitual.
Thus seen, he was changed much since we last
beheld him. His cheek was more pale and thin,
his lips more firmly compressed, his eye more
fixed and abstract. You could detect, if I may
borrow a touching French expression, that <q>sorrow
had passed by there.</q> But the melancholy
on his countenance was ineffably sweet and serene,
and on his ample forehead there was that
power, so rarely seen in early youth&mdash;the power
that has conquered, and betrays its conquests but
in calm. The period of doubt, of struggle, of
defiance, was gone forever; genius and soul were
reconciled to human life. It was a face most
lovable; so gentle and peaceful in its character.
No want of fire; on the contrary, the fire was so
clear and so steadfast, that it conveyed but the
impression of light. The candor of boyhood,
the simplicity of the villager were still there&mdash;refined
by intelligence, but intelligence that seemed
to have traversed through knowledge&mdash;not
with the footstep, but the wing&mdash;unsullied by the
mire&mdash;tending toward the star&mdash;seeking through
the various grades of Being but the lovelier forms
of truth and goodness; at home as should be the
Art that consummates the Beautiful&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>In den heitern Regionen</q></l>
<l><q rend='post'>Wo die reinen Formen wohnen.</q><note place='foot'><p>At home&mdash;
</p>
<p><q>In the serene regions<lb/>
Where dwell the pure forms.</q></p></note></l>
</lg>
</quote>

<pb n='537'/><anchor id='Pg537'/>

<p>
From this reverie Leonard did not seek to rouse
himself, till the bell at the garden gate rang loud
and shrill; and then starting up and hurrying
into the hall, his hand was grasped in Harley's.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>Chapter XVI.</head>

<p>
A full and happy hour passed away in Harley's
questions and Leonard's answers; the dialogue
that naturally ensued between the two, on
the first interview after an absence of years so
eventful to the younger man.
</p>

<p>
The history of Leonard during this interval
was almost solely internal, the struggle of intellect
with its own difficulties, the wanderings of
imagination through its own adventurous worlds.
</p>

<p>
The first aim of Norreys in preparing the mind
of his pupil for its vocation, had been to establish
the equilibrium of its powers, to calm into harmony
the elements rudely shaken by the trials
and passions of the old hard outer life.
</p>

<p>
The theory of Norreys was briefly this. The
education of a superior human being is but the
development of ideas in one for the benefit of
others. To this end, attention should be directed&mdash;1st,
To the value of the ideas collected;
2dly, To their discipline; 3dly, To their expression.
For the first, acquirement is necessary;
for the second, discipline; for the third, art. The
first comprehends knowledge, purely intellectual,
whether derived from observation, memory, reflection,
books, or men, Aristotle, or Fleet-street.
The second demands <emph>training</emph>, not only intellectual,
but moral; the purifying and exaltation
of motives; the formation of habits; in which
method is but a part of a divine and harmonious
symmetry&mdash;a union of intellect and conscience.
Ideas of value, stored by the first process; marshaled
into force, and placed under guidance,
by the second; it is the result of the third, to
place them before the world in the most attractive
or commanding form. This may be done by
actions no less than words; but the adaptation
of means to end, the passage of ideas from the
brain of one man into the lives and souls of all,
no less in action than in books, requires study.
Action has its art as well as literature. Here
Norreys had but to deal with the calling of the
scholar, the formation of the writer, and so to guide
the perceptions toward those varieties in the sublime
and beautiful, the just combination of which
is at once <hi rend='smallcaps'>creation</hi>. Man himself is but a combination
of elements. He who combines in nature,
creates in art.
</p>

<p>
Such, very succinctly and inadequately expressed,
was the system upon which Norreys
proceeded to regulate and perfect the great native
powers of his pupil; and though the reader
may perhaps say that no system laid down by
another can either form genius or dictate to its
results, yet probably nine-tenths at least of those
in whom we recognize the luminaries of our
race, have passed, unconsciously to themselves
(for self-education is rarely conscious of its
phases), through each of these processes. And
no one who pauses to reflect will deny, that according
to this theory, illustrated by a man of
vast experience, profound knowledge, and exquisite
taste, the struggles of genius would be
infinitely lessened; its vision cleared and strengthened,
and the distance between effort and success
notably abridged.
</p>

<p>
Norreys, however, was far too deep a reasoner
to fall into the error of modern teachers, who
suppose that education can dispense with labor.
No mind becomes muscular without rude and
early exercise. Labor should be strenuous, but
in right directions. All that we can do for it is
to save the waste of time in blundering into needless
toils.
</p>

<p>
The master had thus first employed his neophyte
in arranging and compiling materials for
a great critical work in which Norreys himself
was engaged. In this stage of scholastic preparation,
Leonard was necessarily led to the
acquisition of languages, for which he had great
aptitude&mdash;the foundations of a large and comprehensive
erudition were solidly constructed.
He traced by the plowshare the walls of the
destined city. Habits of accuracy and of generalization
became formed insensibly; and that
precious faculty which seizes, amidst accumulated
materials, those that serve the object for
which they are explored&mdash;(that faculty which
quadruples all force, by concentrating it on one
point)&mdash;once roused into action, gave purpose
to every toil and quickness to each perception.
But Norreys did not confine his pupil solely to
the mute world of a library; he introduced him
to some of the first minds in arts, science, and
letters&mdash;and active life. <q>These,</q> said he, <q>are
the living ideas of the present, out of which
books for the future will be written: study them;
and here, as in the volumes of the past, diligently
amass and deliberately compile.</q>
</p>

<p>
By degrees Norreys led on that young ardent
mind from the selection of ideas to their sthetic
analysis&mdash;from compilation to criticism; but
criticism severe, close, and logical&mdash;a reason
for each word of praise or of blame. Led in
this stage of his career to examine into the laws
of beauty, a new light broke upon his mind;
from amidst the masses of marble he had piled
around him, rose the vision of the statue.
</p>

<p>
And so, suddenly one day Norreys said to him,
<q>I need a compiler no longer&mdash;maintain yourself
by your own creations.</q> And Leonard wrote,
and a work flowered up from the seed deep
buried, and the soil well cleared to the rays of the
sun and the healthful influence of expanded air.
</p>

<p>
That first work did not penetrate to a very
wide circle of readers, not from any perceptible
fault of its own&mdash;there is luck in these things,
the first anonymous work of an original genius
is rarely at once eminently successful. But the
more experienced recognized the promise of
the book. Publishers, who have an instinct in
the discovery of available talent, which often
forestalls the appreciation of the public, volunteered
liberal offers. <q>Be fully successful this
time,</q> said Norreys; <q>think not of models nor
<pb n='538'/><anchor id='Pg538'/>
of style. Strike at once at the common human
heart&mdash;throw away the corks&mdash;swim out boldly.
One word more&mdash;never write a page till you
have walked from your room to Temple Bar,
and, mingling with men, and reading the human
face, learn why great poets have mostly passed
their lives in cities.</q>
</p>

<p>
Thus Leonard wrote again, and woke one
morning to find himself famous. So far as the
chances of all professions dependent on health
will permit, present independence, and, with
foresight and economy, the prospects of future
competence were secured.
</p>

<p>
<q>And, indeed,</q> said Leonard, concluding a
longer but a simpler narrative than is here told&mdash;<q>indeed,
there is some chance that I may obtain
at once a sum that will leave me free for
the rest of my life to select my own subjects and
write without care for renumeration. This is
what I call the true (and, perhaps, alas! the
rare) independence of him who devotes himself
to letters. Norreys, having seen my boyish
plan for the improvement of certain machinery
in the steam-engine, insisted on my giving much
time to mechanics. The study that once pleased
me so greatly, now seemed dull; but I went
into it with good heart; and the result is, that I
have improved so far on my original idea, that
my scheme has met the approbation of one of
our most scientific engineers; and I am assured
that the patent for it will be purchased
of me upon terms which I am ashamed to name
to you, so disproportioned do they seem to the
value of so simple a discovery. Meanwhile, I
am already rich enough to have realized the
two dreams of my heart&mdash;to make a home in
the cottage where I had last seen you and
Helen&mdash;I mean Miss Digby; and to invite to
that home her who had sheltered my infancy.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Your mother, where is she? Let me see
her.</q>
</p>

<p>
Leonard ran out to call the widow, but, to his
surprise and vexation, learned that she had quitted
the house before L'Estrange arrived.
</p>

<p>
He came back perplexed how to explain what
seemed ungracious and ungrateful, and spoke
with hesitating lip and flushed cheek of the
widow's natural timidity and sense of her own
homely station. <q>And so overpowered is she,</q>
added Leonard, <q>by the recollection of all that
we owe to you, that she never hears your name
without agitation or tears, and trembled like a
leaf at the thought of seeing you.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Ha!</q> said Harley, with visible emotion.
<q>Is it so?</q> And he bent down, shading his
face with his hand. <q>And,</q> he renewed, after
a pause, but not looking up&mdash;<q>and you ascribe
this fear of seeing me, this agitation at my name,
solely to an exaggerated sense of&mdash;of the circumstances
attending my acquaintance with
yourself?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And, perhaps, to a sort of shame that the
mother of one you have made her proud of is but
a peasant.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>That is all,</q> said Harley, earnestly, now
looking up and fixing eyes in which stood tears,
upon Leonard's ingenuous brow.
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, my dear lord, what else can it be? Do
not judge her harshly.</q>
</p>

<p>
L'Estrange rose abruptly, pressed Leonard's
hand, muttered something not audible, and then
drawing his young friend's arm in his, led him
into the garden, and turned the conversation
back to its former topics.
</p>

<p>
Leonard's heart yearned to ask after Helen,
and yet something withheld him from doing so,
till, seeing Harley did not volunteer to speak of
her, he could not resist his impulse. <q>And
Helen&mdash;Miss Digby&mdash;is she much changed?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Changed, no&mdash;yes; very much.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Very much!</q> Leonard sighed.
</p>

<p>
<q>I shall see her again?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Certainly,</q> said Harley, in a tone of surprise.
<q>How can you doubt it? And I reserve
to you the pleasure of saying that you are
renowned. You blush; well, I will say that
for you. But you shall give her your books.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>She has not yet read them, then?&mdash;not the
last? The first was not worthy of her attention,</q>
said Leonard, disappointed.
</p>

<p>
<q>She has only just arrived in England; and,
though your books reached me in Germany, she
was not then with me. When I have settled
some business that will take me from town, I
shall present you to her and my mother.</q> There
was a certain embarrassment in Harley's voice
as he spoke; and, turning round abruptly, he
exclaimed, <q>But you have shown poetry even
here. I could not have conceived that so much
beauty could be drawn from what appeared to
me the most commonplace of all suburban gardens.
Why, surely where that charming fountain
now plays, stood the rude bench in which I
read your verses.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>It is true; I wished to unite all together my
happiest associations. I think I told you, my
lord, in one of my letters, that I had owed a very
happy, yet very struggling time in my boyhood
to the singular kindness and generous instructions
of a foreigner whom I served. This fountain
is copied from one that I made in his garden,
and by the margin of which many a summer
day I have sat and dreamt of fame and knowledge.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>True, you told me of that; and your foreigner
will be pleased to hear of your success,
and no less so of your graceful recollections. By
the way, you did not mention his name.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Riccabocca.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Riccabocca! My own dear and noble friend!&mdash;is
it possible? One of my reasons for returning
to England is connected with him. You
shall go down with me and see him. I meant
to start this evening.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>My dear lord,</q> said Leonard, <q>I think that
you may spare yourself so long a journey. I
have reason to suspect that Signor Riccabocca
is my nearest neighbor. Two days ago I was
in the garden, when suddenly lifting my eyes to
yon hillock I perceived the form of a man seated
<pb n='539'/><anchor id='Pg539'/>
among the bushwood; and, though I could not
see his features, there was something in the very
outline of his figure and his peculiar position,
that irresistibly reminded me of Riccabocca. I
hastened out of the garden and ascended the hill,
but he was gone. My suspicions were so strong
that I caused inquiry to be made at the different
shops scattered about, and learned that a family
consisting of a gentleman, his wife, and daughter,
had lately come to live in a house that you
must have passed in your way hither, standing
a little back from the road, surrounded by high
walls; and though they were said to be English,
yet from the description given to me of the gentleman's
person by one who had noticed it, by
the fact of a foreign servant in their employ, and
by the very name <q>Richmouth,</q> assigned the new
comers, I can scarcely doubt that it is the family
you seek.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And you have not called to ascertain?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Pardon me, but the family so evidently shunning
observation (no one but the master himself
ever seen without the walls), the adoption of
another name, too, lead me to infer that Signor
Riccabocca has some strong motive for concealment;
and now, with my improved knowledge
of life, I can not, recalling all the past, but
suppose that Riccabocca was not what he appeared.
Hence, I have hesitated on formally
obtruding myself upon his secrets, whatever they
be, and have rather watched for some chance
occasion to meet him in his walks.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You did right, my dear Leonard; but my reasons
for seeing my old friend forbid all scruples
of delicacy, and I will go at once to his house.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You will tell me, my lord, if I am right.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I hope to be allowed to do so. Pray, stay
at home till I return. And now, ere I go, one
question more. You indulge conjectures as to
Riccabocca, because he has changed his name&mdash;why
have you dropped your own?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I wished to have no name,</q> said Leonard,
coloring deeply, <q>but that which I could make
myself.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Proud poet, this I can comprehend. But
from what reason did you assume the strange and
fantastic name of Oran?</q>
</p>

<p>
The flush on Leonard's face became deeper.
<q>My lord,</q> said he, in a low voice, <q>it is a
childish fancy of mine; it is an anagram.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Ah!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>At a time when my cravings after knowledge
were likely much to mislead, and perhaps undo
me, I chanced on some poems that suddenly affected
my whole mind, and led me up into purer
air; and I was told that these poems were written
in youth, by one who had beauty and genius&mdash;one
who was in her grave&mdash;a relation of my
own, and her familiar name was Nora&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Ah!</q> again ejaculated Lord L'Estrange,
and his arm pressed heavily upon Leonard's.
</p>

<p>
<q>So, somehow or other,</q> continued the young
author, falteringly, <q>I wished that if ever I won
to a poet's fame, it might be to my own heart, at
least, associated with this name of Nora&mdash;with
her whom death had robbed of the fame that she
might otherwise have won&mdash;with her who&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
He paused, greatly agitated.
</p>

<p>
Harley was no less so. But as if by a sudden
impulse, the soldier bent down his manly head and
kissed the poet's brow; then he hastened to the
gate, flung himself on his horse, and rode away.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>Chapter XVII.</head>

<p>
Lord L'Estrange did not proceed at once to
Riccabocca's house. He was under the influence
of a remembrance too deep and too strong to yield
easily to the lukewarm claim of friendship. He
rode fast and far; and impossible it would be to
define the feelings that passed through a mind so
acutely sensitive, and so rootedly tenacious of all
affections. When he once more, recalling his duty
to the Italian, retraced his road to Norwood, the
slow pace of his horse was significant of his own
exhausted spirits; a deep dejection had succeeded
to feverish excitement. <q>Vain task,</q> he murmured,
<q>to wean myself from the dead! Yet I
am now betrothed to another; and she, with all
her virtues is not the one to&mdash;</q> He stopped short
in generous self-rebuke. <q>Too late to think of
that! Now, all that should remain to me is to
insure the happiness of the life to which I have
pledged my own. But&mdash;</q> He sighed as he so
murmured. On reaching the vicinity of Riccabocca's
house, he put up his horse at a little inn,
and proceeded on foot across the heath-land toward
the dull square building, which Leonard's
description had sufficed to indicate as the exile's
new home. It was long before any one answered
his summons at the gate. Not till he had
thrice rung did he hear a heavy step on the gravel
walk within; then the wicket within the gate was
partially drawn aside, a dark eye gleamed out,
and a voice in imperfect English asked who was
there.
</p>

<p>
<q>Lord L'Estrange; and if I am right as to the
person I seek, that name will at once admit me.</q>
</p>

<p>
The door flew open as did that of the mystic
cavern at the sound of <q>Open Sesame;</q> and Giacomo,
almost weeping with joyous emotion, exclaimed
in Italian, <q>The good Lord! Holy San
Giacomo! thou hast heard me at last! We are
safe now.</q> And dropping the blunderbuss with
which he had taken the precaution to arm himself,
he lifted Harley's hand to his lips, in the
affectionate greeting familiar to his countrymen.
</p>

<p>
<q>And the Padrone?</q> asked Harley, as he entered
the jealous precincts.
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, he is just gone out: but he will not be
long. You will wait for him?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Certainly. What lady is that I see at the
far end of the garden?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Bless her, it is our Signorina. I will run and
tell her that you are come.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>That I am come; but she can not know me
even by name.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Ah, Excellency, can you think so? Many
and many a time has she talked to me of you, and
I have heard her pray to the holy Madonna to
bless you, and in a voice so sweet&mdash;</q>
</p>

<pb n='540'/><anchor id='Pg540'/>

<p>
<q>Stay, I will present myself to her. Go into
the house, and we will wait without for the Padrone.
Nay, I need the air, my friend.</q> Harley,
as he said this, broke from Giacomo, and approached
Violante.
</p>

<p>
The poor child, in her solitary walk in the obscurer
parts of the dull garden, had escaped the
eye of Giacomo when he had gone forth to answer
the bell; and she, unconscious of the fears
of which she was the object, had felt something
of youthful curiosity at the summons at the gate,
and the sight of a stranger in close and friendly
conference with the unsocial Giacomo.
</p>

<p>
As Harley now neared her with that singular
grace of movement which belonged to him, a thrill
shot through her heart&mdash;she knew not why. She
did not recognize his likeness to the sketch taken
by her father, from his recollections of Harley's
early youth. She did not guess who he was; and
yet she felt herself color, and, naturally fearless
though she was, turned away with a vague alarm.
</p>

<p>
<q>Pardon my want of ceremony, Signorina,</q>
said Harley, in Italian; <q>but I am so old a friend
of your father's that I can not feel as a stranger
to yourself.</q>
</p>

<p>
Then Violante lifted to him her dark eyes, so
intelligent and so innocent&mdash;eyes full of surprise,
but not displeased surprise. And Harley himself
stood amazed, and almost abashed, by the rich
and marvelous beauty that beamed upon him.
<q>My father's friend,</q> she said hesitatingly, <q>and
I never to have seen you!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Ah, Signorina,</q> said Harley (and something
of his native humor, half arch, half sad, played
round his lip), <q>you are mistaken there; you
have seen me before, and you received me much
more kindly then&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Signor!</q> said Violante, more and more surprised,
and with a yet richer color on her cheeks.
</p>

<p>
Harley, who had now recovered from the
first effect of her beauty, and who regarded her
as men of his years and character are apt to regard
ladies in their teens, as more child than
woman, suffered himself to be amused by her perplexity;
for it was in his nature, that the graver
and more mournful he felt at heart, the more he
sought to give play and whim to his spirits.
</p>

<p>
<q>Indeed, Signorina,</q> said he demurely, <q>you
insisted then on placing one of those fair hands
in mine; the other (forgive me the fidelity of my
recollections) was affectionately thrown around
my neck.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Signor!</q> again exclaimed Violante; but
this time there was anger in her voice as well
as surprise, and nothing could be more charming
than her look of pride and resentment.
</p>

<p>
Harley smiled again, but with so much kindly
sweetness, that the anger vanished at once, or
rather Violante felt angry with herself that she
was no longer angry with him. But she had
looked so beautiful in her anger, that Harley
wished, perhaps, to see her angry again. So,
composing his lips from their propitiatory smile
he resumed, gravely&mdash;
</p>

<p>
(To Be Continued.)
</p>

</div>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>A Brace Of Blunders By A Roving
Englishman.</head>

<p>
I arrived at Bayonne from Paris, by the
Malle-Poste, one glorious morning. How
well I remember it! The courier, who used to
play an important part in the economy of the old
French Malle-Poste, was the most irritable man
I ever saw. He quarreled with every one and
every thing on the road. I fancy that he was
liable to some slight penalty in case of reaching
Bayonne later than a given hour; but had the
penalty been breaking on the wheel, he could not
have been more anxious to drive at full speed.
Here let me note, by the way, that the pace of a
French courier, in the good old times, was the
most tremendous pace at which I have ever traveled
behind horses. It surpassed the helter-skelter
of an Irish mail. The whole economy of the
Malle-Poste was curious. No postillion ever drove
more than one stage: mortal arms could not have
continued flogging any farther. The number of
the horses was indefinite&mdash;now there were four;
presently, five, or six, or seven; four again, or
eight; all harnessed with broken bits of rope
and wonders of fragmentary tackle. The coach-box,
on which the postillion used to sit, was the
minutest iron perch to which the body of a man
could hook itself. The coach itself was britzka-shaped,
with room for two. It was in this conveyance
that I traveled over the frightful hills
between Bordeaux and Bayonne. When we
neared any descent a mile or two long, the postillion
regularly tied the reins loosely to some part
of the frail box, seized the whip, and flogged,
and shouted, until down we went with a great
rush, dashing and rocking from side to side
while my irate friend, the courier, plied a sort
of iron drag or rudder, with the enthusiastic gestures
of a madman. Watching my time, when,
after one of these frantic bouts, my friend sank
back exhausted, and quite hoarse with all his
roaring, I quietly offered him a bunch of grapes,
which I had bought at Tours. Their grateful
coolness made the man my friend eternally, but
had I offered him a captain's biscuit at that moment
I could not have answered for the consequences.
So much depends on judgment in the
timing of a gift!
</p>

<p>
On arriving at Bayonne, the first notable thing
I saw was a gendarme, who asked me for my
passport. I had none. He looked grave, but I,
young in travel, pushed him aside cavalierly, and
bade my servant, who had arrived the day before,
see to my luggage. The cocked hat followed me
into the inn, but bidding it be off, I walked into
a private sitting-room, in which a bed was a
prominent article of furniture. I ordered for my
breakfast some broiled ham and eggs, and was
informed that I could not have ham, though in
Bayonne. I should be served with chocolate and
sugar-sticks, pump-water, and milk-bread. While
breakfast was preparing, the cocked hat arrested
me, and marched me off to the police-office.
</p>

<p>
<q>Your passport?</q> said the Inspector.
</p>

<p>
<q>My breakfast,</q> said I.
</p>

<pb n='541'/><anchor id='Pg541'/>

<p>
<q>You are under arrest,</q> said the Inspector.
</p>

<p>
Then I referred to the consul, with whom I
had a sort of second-hand acquaintance, and who
offered to provide me with a passport; but his
offer was declined. I was conducted to the preft.
The preft transferred me to the Procureur
du Roi, whom I unhappily disturbed when he
was sitting down to breakfast. I apologized for
my unavoidable intrusion.
</p>

<p>
<q>Pray don't mention it,</q> said he; <q>I take
cold fish for breakfast, and iced coffee;</q> so he
sat down and listened to my tale, and said that
I must be detained.
</p>

<p>
<q>Impossible!</q> I cried. <q>I have sent on my
money and baggage to Madrid.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Many political agitators have slipped through
Bayonne,</q> replied the procureur. <q>Write to
Lord Hervey. When a passport comes for you
from Paris you can pass the frontier; not before.</q>
</p>

<p>
Of course he said he was <q>desolated,</q> as he
bowed me out. I was at liberty to reside at the
htel, under the lackeyship of two gendarmes,
who waited on me night and day. A crowd had
gathered to witness my return from the house of
the procureur, and ladies thronged the balconies.
Rumor had, in fact, created me Conde de Montemolin!
</p>

<p>
Henceforth, until my passport came, I was
peeped at through all manner of doors by all manner
of men, and encountered accidentally in passages
by all manner of women; one band hindered
me from sleeping in my bed, another played
to me at dinner, and both expected payment
for their services, until the passport came, and
brought me so much degradation as enabled me
to step, uncared for, into the common diligence,
and travel on.
</p>

<p>
It has occurred to many other people to be
mistaken in some such way, and more than once
it has occurred to people to make, on their own
account, a certain blunder, which Goldsmith has
immortalized. This blunder, I, when I ought to
have known better, was incautious enough one
day to commit....
</p>

<p>
In the year one thousand eight hundred and
forty-eight, I was engaged in a tour through the
by-ways of Germany, on horseback. During this
tour I found myself, one summer morning, drawing
near to the small town of Maikommen, in the
Palatinate. Though the dawn had been cloudless,
the noon threatened a storm, and already
the big drops struck on the ground. Respect
for my baggage, which consisted of two shirts,
three books, and a pair of stockings, made me
look for shelter.
</p>

<p>
The heavy drops fell faster as I cantered on
at a brisk pace, and just at the entrance of the
little town rode through a pair of broad gates into
what I took for the inn-yard. Having stabled my
horse in a remarkably clean stall, I ran into the
house, and got under cover, just as the first peal
of thunder rattled among the distant hills, and
the rain had begun plashing down in earnest.
A pretty child sucked its thumbs in the passage.
<q>Quick, little puss,</q> said I, shaking the raindrops
from my hat, <q>tell somebody to come to
me!</q> <q>Mamma,</q> the child cried, running in,
<q>here is a strange gentleman.</q>
</p>

<p>
A pleasant-looking woman, with a homely
German face, came out of an adjoining room
with the child clinging to her dress, and asked
me what I wanted?
</p>

<p>
<q>Some dinner,</q> I answered <q>and a bottle of
your best wine.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Go and tell father to come,</q> said the woman,
looking at me curiously. A tall, good-humored
man, of about fifty, made his appearance, and I
repeated my desire in a tone somewhat more
authoritative. He laughed, and the wife laughed,
and the child shrieked with laughter. But I had
met with many curiosities among the German
innkeepers in remote country places, and, being
willing to let these people, see that, though an
Englishman, I was also good-humored, I joined
their laugh, and then asked, with a grave face,
when the table-d'hte would be served?
</p>

<p>
<q>We keep no table-d'hte,</q> replied the husband.
</p>

<p>
<q>Well,</q> I said, <q>but notwithstanding, you will
let me have some dinner, I suppose? I have
come a long way, and it is far to the next town.
Besides, it rains!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Certainly, it rains!</q> replied the man, with a
phlegmatic look over the puddles in the court-yard.
</p>

<p>
At this moment a clattering of plates, a steam
of soup, and a sweet odor of fresh cucumber, attracted
my attention. I said immediately that I
was quite willing to dine at their table. By this
time the child had got over its fear, and was at
play with my riding-whip; a few caressing words
of mine toward the little one, had reassured its
mother. She spoke for a moment in <foreign rend='italic'>patois</foreign> with
her husband; and then bade the servant lay another
knife and fork.
</p>

<p>
I rather liked my landlord's eccentricity; so,
tapping him upon the shoulder in a friendly way,
I desired that he would let me have a bottle of
his very best wine; and by way of propitiating
him still more, I feigned to have heard a good
deal of his cellar, and requested to see it. <q>O,
very well,</q> he said; <q>follow me if you please.'</q>
</p>

<p>
He took me down into a cellar capitally
stocked, and there we tasted a good many wines.
My landlord seemed to be in the best temper.
</p>

<p>
<q>And what,</q> I asked, <q>is the price of that
white wine in the thin long-necked bottles?</q>
</p>

<p>
I despair of getting its colossal name down
upon paper, or I would try it; he gave it a great
many syllables, and said it was the choicest and
most expensive wine he had.
</p>

<p>
<q>Then,</q> said I, <q>that is what we will drink
to-day. I will take a bottle to myself, and you
another; you shall drink it with me.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You are very kind,</q> he said; <q>but let me
recommend some other bin; this wine you will
find is&mdash;is very heady.</q>
</p>

<p>
I thought that, like a thrifty host, he had some
qualm about my means of paying for it; so I
seized, manfully, a bottle in each hand, and crying
<q>Come along!</q> accompanied the host into
the dining-room.
</p>

<p>
The wine deserved its praise; opening our
hearts, it soon made us famous friends. I had
<pb n='542'/><anchor id='Pg542'/>
been pleased with the scenery about this quiet
nook, and, being master of my time, and very
comfortable, I made up my mind and said,
</p>

<p>
<q>I tell you what, my friend. I shall send for
my things from Heidelberg, and stay here for a
week or two.</q>
</p>

<p>
The laughter again pealed out; but my host,
who probably had seen quite enough of a guest
who insisted upon drinking his best wine, put on
a grave face. It looked like an innkeeper's face,
when he is buckling himself up to strike a bargain.
To save him trouble, I at once said that
I would pay three florins a day for myself, and
one for the accommodation of my horse.
</p>

<p>
<q>He thinks we keep an inn!</q> the little child
screamed through her laughter. I instantly collapsed.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Public Executions In England.</head>

<p>
One Saturday morning toward the close of
November or beginning of December, I have
forgotten the precise date, a letter was put into
my hand at the office. It was from my quondam
friend and employer the cutler editor, as whose
agent I occasionally acted, and who charged me
with a commission to procure him certain <q>sorts</q>
from the foundry and transmit them by coach, in
time for his next impression. Not choosing to
disappoint my wife and lose my dinner, I deferred
the visit to the foundry until after work in the
evening; when, upon arriving at Chiswell-street,
I found the men in the act of leaving, but was
informed I could have the materials I wanted as
early as I chose on Monday. On Monday morning,
accordingly, having risen rather earlier than
usual and breakfasted by candle-light, I set forth
to execute my commission before proceeding to
work. Crossing Blackfriars-bridge, and barely
noticing that there was an unusual concourse of
foot-passengers of the laboring and lower sorts, I
turned up Ludgate-hill, where I found the crowd
still greater, less equivocally disrespectable, and
all hurrying forward at a rapid walking-pace.
Intent upon the object I had in view, I pushed
forward as rapidly as the rest, and turning sharp
round into the Old Bailey, came suddenly upon a
spectacle which, of all others, was the farthest
from my thoughts. It was the morning of an
execution. A thick damp haze filled the air, not
amounting to an actual fog, but sufficiently dense
to confine the limits of vision to a few hundred
yards. The beams of the level sun threw an
almost supernatural light of a dim but fiery hue
into the mist which they yet had not force enough
to penetrate; and there, darkly looming with
grim and shadow-like outline against a background
of lurid vapor, rose the gallows upon
which a wretched fellow-creature was about to
be death-strangled and dangled in expiation of the
crime of murder. In a moment the commission
I had in hand vanished from my thoughts, and,
impelled by a fearful and morbid curiosity, I
suffered myself to be borne by the pressure behind,
every moment aggravated by the arrival of
trampling multitudes to the spot, toward the object
of the general gaze. One minute afterward,
I saw that the attempt to retrace my steps would
be not only vain but dangerous; and, compelled
to make the best of what I could not now avoid,
I was pressed onward as far as the outlet of
Fleet-lane, when, contriving by main force to
get my back against the end of a stout tressle
upon which seven or eight fellows were mounted,
I managed to maintain my position until the horrible
ceremony was concluded. It wanted yet
full twenty minutes to eight o'clock, when I stood
fast-wedged within a few fathoms' length of the
scaffold. As far as the eye could pierce through
the misty glare, was one unbroken sea of human
heads and faces; the outer masses reeling, staggering
and driving in fitful currents against the
firm, compact and solid centre, fixed and immovable
as though charmed to stone by the horrible
fascination of the gibbet. Far beyond and above
all the tower of St. Sepulchre's, magnified by the
morning haze, showed like a tall, transparent
cloud, from which was soon to burst the thunder-peal
of doom upon the miserable man who had
shed his brother's blood. The subdued murmur
of the immense mob rose and swelled like the
hollow roar of a distant but angry sea. Here
and there a tall and burly ruffian, pre-eminent
above the crowd, signaled his fellow in the distance,
or bellowed a ghastly witticism upon the
coming horror across the heads of the throng.
Women&mdash;if women they are to be called, who,
like vultures to the carcass, flock to the spectacle
of dying agonies&mdash;of all ages but of one indescribably
vicious and repulsive class, had pushed,
and struggled, and fought their way to an eligible
point of view, where they awaited with masculine
impatience the close of the fearful drama of
which they formed so revolting a part. Children
of tender age, who must have taken up their
position ere the day had dawned, and before the
arrival of the masses, made an unsightly addition
to the scene. A boy of nine, borne aloft on the
shoulders of a man of sixty, who stood by my
side, expressed his uncontrollable delight at the
tragedy he was about to witness. At every
window in the houses opposite, the debtors' door,
and indeed wherever a view of the gallows could
be obtained, parties of pleasure were assembled
for the recreation of the morning. The roofs, the
parapets, the protruding eaves of the shops, all
were populous with life; the very lamp-posts and
projecting sign-boards were clung and clustered
over with eager beings impatient to assist in the
funeral obsequies of the victim of the law. And
now a violent surging and commotion in the
centre of the living mass gives token of a fierce
quarrel which has ripened to a fight. Shrieks,
yells, and cheers of encouragement issue from a
hundred throats, while a crew of tall and powerful
blackguards elbow and trample their way to
the scene of action, and the glazed hats of the
police are seen converging unerringly to the disturbed
spot. Then there is the flourishing of
gilded staves, the sound of sturdy blows followed
by a roar of execration, and a gory-visaged culprit
is dragged forth, defrauded of his expected
banquet, and consigned to a cell in the nearest
<pb n='543'/><anchor id='Pg543'/>
station. The tumult has hardly subsided when
another claims attention. A brace of pickpockets,
taking advantage of the fight, are caught in
the too confident exercise of their profession;
and these, much easier captives than the fighting
Irishman, are led off in their turn to the same
vile durance.
</p>

<p>
By this time, weary and actually sore with the
repeated violent collisions I had undergone in
sustaining my post, I was glad to make a bargain
with the man perched above me, who, for a bribe
of a few pence, allowed me to effect a footing in
his front. I had scarcely accomplished this when
the church-clock in the distance rung out the
quarters. The crowd, listening for this, had been
comparatively silent for the last few minutes, and
the note of the bell was acknowledged by a kind
of shuddering deprecation for silence, by the instant
uncovering of innumerable heads, and the
involuntary direction of every eye toward the
debtors' door. As the fatal hour at length pealed
forth the door was slowly opened, and there came
out upon the scaffold, not the mournful death-procession
which all were awaiting with such intense
interest, but its grim herald and precursor,
the crime-honored aristarch of kill-craft, the great
stage-manager of the law's last scene, whose
performances are so much relished by the mob&mdash;the
hangman, bearing the odious strand of new
rope coiled upon his arm. He was received with
a low but universal hum of recognition from the
vast multitude now breathless with the exciting
anticipation of what was so soon to follow.
With an apparent perfect unconsciousness of the
presence of a single spectator, he proceeded to
mount to the cross-piece of the gibbet, to which,
with an air of professional dexterity, he deliberately
attached the loathsome cord, occasionally
pausing and measuring with his eye the distance
to the level of the platform. During this operation
he was favored with a running fire of comments
and counsels, garnished with infernal
jokes and sallies of insane humor, from the mob
who stood nearest. Having made the necessary
preparations he withdrew for a few minutes,
amidst the mock cheers and congratulations of
some kindred spirits below. The awful pause
which ensued was but of brief duration. Too
soon a group of dark figures slowly emerged from
the open door-way, among which I could discern
the chaplain reading the burial-service, and then
the quivering criminal, his hands clasped in
prayer, yet bound together in front of his breast:
he was supported by two assistants, and was
already, to all appearance, more than half dead
with mortal terror. These demonstrations of insupportable
anguish on the part of the principal
performer were received with evident and audible
dissatisfaction by a large portion of the spectators
of the drama. Derisive sneers on the want of
<q>pluck</q> manifested by the poor, horror-stricken
wretch were expressed in language which can
not be repeated; and in many a female but unfeminine
face, hardened by embruting vice and
callous to every feeling of humanity, I read a
contemptuous scorn of the timorous sufferer and
a proud and fiend-like consciousness that they
themselves would have dared the dark ordeal
with less shrinking. The very boy mounted on
the old man's shoulders at my side called his
<q>grand-dad</q> to witness that <q>the cove as was to
be hanged wasn't game;</q> a declaration which
was received with a hoarse chuckle and a corroborative
verdict by the standers-by, while the repulsive
ceremony went on with fearful rapidity.
In less than a minute the light of day was shut
forever from his eyes, the last prayerful accents
from human lips were dumb to his ears, and the
body of the malefactor, sinking with a sudden
fall until half concealed by the level platform,
struggled in the final throes of agony for a few
moments&mdash;mercifully abbreviated, as some well-experienced
amateurs at my side plainly pointed
out, by the coadjutors of the hangman pulling
heavily at the feet in the inclosure below&mdash;and
then swung senseless, veering slowly round upon
the now deserted stage.
</p>

<p>
The very instant the <q>drop</q> fell, and while
the short gasping cry from a thousand lips which
hailed the close of the tragedy yet rung in the
air, the scene assumed a new character: the elements
of business were borne into the arena of
pleasure. Three or four nondescript specimens
of the street-orator, who were standing just beneath
me, drew suddenly forth from the depths
of their long-tailed greasy coats of serge each a
bundle of damp paper, which they flourished into
flags in a twinkling; and while the death-struggle
was acting before their eyes, eager to turn it
to account and to realize an honest penny, filled
the air with their roaring intonations of <q>the
last dying speech, confession, and behavior</q> of
the murderer of the season. Their example was
imitated by fifty others on different parts of the
ground, and the chorus of their united voices
formed but a beggarly requiem to the departing
spirit. The tragedy ended, the farce, as a matter
of course, came next. The body had to remain
suspended for an hour, and during that
hour amusement must be provided, at least for
that portion of the spectators who can never have
enough unless they have the whole of an entertainment.
To swing a live cat from a side avenue
into the middle of the crowd; to whirl a
heavy truncheon from one broken head on a mission
to another; to kick, maul, and worry some
unfortunate stray cur that has unhappily wandered
from his master; to get up a quarrel or a
fight, if between women so much the better&mdash;such
are some of the time-honored diversions
chosen to recreate the hour which a sagacious
legislature presumes to be spent in moral reflections
upon the enormity of crime and the certainty
of its bitter punishment, in the presence
of the law-strangled dead.
</p>

<p>
I had never before seen a public execution in
England, but I knew perfectly well&mdash;as who
does not know?&mdash;the feeling with which such
exhibitions are regarded by the lower orders, and
I had often revolved in my mind the probable
cause of that feeling. In now witnessing thus
accidentally the whole ceremony, I thought I
<pb n='544'/><anchor id='Pg544'/>
perceived one source of it, and that not a trifling
one, in the ceremony itself. It struck me, and I
have no doubt but others have received the same
impression, that with all the actual horrors of
the dismal process, in addition to a great deal
that is disgusting, there is a great deal more
that is essentially though horribly ridiculous in
our national legal method of public killing. The
idea of tying a man's hands, of drawing over his
face a white night-cap, through which his features
yet remain dimly legible, and then hanging
him up in the air is manifestly a ridiculous idea&mdash;and
connect it with what dreadful realities we
may, the sense of the comic or absurd will predominate
in the minds of the populace, ever alive
to the appreciation of the preposterous or the
discrepant, and never willingly disposed to serious
reflection. The vagabond kennel-raker, the
nomadic coster, the houseless thief, the man of
the lowest order of intellect or of morals, sees
the majesty of the law descending to the punch-and-judy
level, and getting rid of its criminals by
the same process as the hunch-backed worthy
adopts to get rid of his tormentor&mdash;and being
accustomed from his infancy to laugh heartily at
the latter exhibition, he is not likely to retain
for any length of time a grave demeanor in presence
of the former one. A flogging in the army
is allowed by all unfortunate enough to have witnessed
it to be a far more impressive spectacle
than a hanging at the Old Bailey. Strong men
are known to faint at the sight of the one, while
boys and women find amusement in the other.
If the object of either exhibition be to deter the
spectators from offending against the laws, why
is the discrepancy between the effects of the two
all on the wrong side? unless it be that the one
exhibits the semblance at least of Justice vindicating
her violated authority with a deserved
though terrible measure of severity, while the
other comes into view as a mere hasty and bungling
business of killing, the vulgar and beggarly
details of which it is impossible to connect in
imagination with her divine attributes.
</p>

<p>
Some years before, I had witnessed in Paris
the execution of two men for assassination. The
crowd on that occasion, in the Place de Grve,
was as great as now in the Old Bailey; but their
decorum, I am bound to state, was infinitely
greater. I can only account for this difference
in favor of a population among whom human life
is at a far greater discount than it is with us,
from the fact that among the French a public
execution is a much more impressive spectacle
than it can be made to be in England. The
guillotine bears a higher character, perhaps, because
it wears a more serious and terrible aspect
than the gallows; and the functionary who controls
its avenging blade does not, as with us, bear
a name the synonym of all that is loathsome and
repulsive. It is the same class of men and the
same order of minds that flock together to gaze
at public executions wherever they take place;
but I question whether, in any other country
than England, a class of traders could be found
corresponding with our hawkers and bawlers of
last dying speeches, who congregate with their
lying wares around the foot of the gallows, watchfully
waiting for the commencement of the death-struggle,
to them the signal of commerce, and
then at the precise moment of horror, unanimously
exploding from their hoarse throats <q>a
full, true, and particular account, for the small
charge of one half-penny.</q> The meanest mud-lark
in all Gaul, the infamous and mal-odorous
<foreign rend='italic'>chiffonier</foreign> of Paris, would recoil with disgust from
such a species of traffic, the prevalence and
prosperity of which at such a time among the
lowest orders of London, testify perhaps more
than any other single fact to the degraded state
of the popular feeling in reference to death-punishment
by the hands of the hangman.
</p>

<p>
Second, to the influence of the hangman, and
the scene in which he figures in the production
of a degrading and disgraceful estimate of the
terrible solemnities of justice, is that of the press.
What the Old Bailey or the Horsemonger-lane
exhibition is to the uneducated spectator, the
broad-sheet is to the uneducated reader; and it
requires no great discrimination to recognize in
the publication of every minute particular of
deeds of violence and bloodshed, looking to the
avidity with which such details are seized upon
by the public, one of the most fruitful sources of
demoralization and crime. The wretched criminal
whose language, looks, and deportment are
chronicled as matters of general importance, becomes
first an object of interest, then an idol to
those of his own class. If, as we know to be
the case, men are led by the force of example to
the commission of suicide, why not of any other
species of crime? If a fashion may spring up,
and prevail for a time, of leaping headlong from
the top of a monument or the parapet of a bridge
through the publicity given to such acts by
means of the press, how shall the exploits of
the felon or the assassin escape imitation when
made the subjects of a far more extensive and
pertinacious publicity, and paraded as they are
before the world with all the importance they
can be made to assume? There can be no question
but that this practice of pandering to a morbid
taste for a detestable species of excitement
results largely in engendering the very crimes
which certain public writers find it so profitable
to detail at such length. The performer on the
Old Bailey stage becomes a veritable hero in the
eyes of the mob of readers for whose especial
delectation his history is periodically dished up,
and they gloat over the recital of his acts with a
relish and a gusto which no other species of
literature can awaken. So great, indeed, of late
years, has grown the appetite for violence and
villainy of all kinds, that our romance-writers have
generously stepped forward to supplement the
exertions of the last-dying-speech patterer, as a
pendant to whose flimsy damp sheets they supply
a still more <q>full, true, and particular account</q>
in the form of three volumes post octavo. Thus,
besides the certainty of being hanged in the presence
of ten or twenty thousand admiring spectators,
the daring and darling desperado who <q>dies
<pb n='545'/><anchor id='Pg545'/>
game</q> stands the enviable chance of becoming a
literary property in the hands of one of those gentlemen,
and of running a second course, in half-calf
and lettered, to interest and instruct that very
community whom it was his life-long occupation
to rob, to plunder, or to slay.
</p>

<p>
Pondering such discursive philosophy as this
in my mind, I stood still on my three-penny eminence
until the crowd had sufficiently cleared
away to allow me to retrace my steps as far as
Ludgate-hill without inconvenience. Then, having
no great relish for the cadaverous jocularity
which generally characterizes the scene of an
execution during the removal of the body of the
malefactor, I descended and turned my back
upon the ignominious spectacle, with a feeling
of disgust for the multitude of my fellows who
could find recreation in the elements of cruelty
and horror, and with anger and vexation at
myself for having added one to their number.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>What To Do In The Mean Time?</head>

<p>
It has been frequently remarked by a philosopher
of our acquaintance, whose only fault
is impracticability, that in life there is but one
real difficulty: this is simply&mdash;what to do in the
mean time? The thesis requires no demonstration.
It comes home to the experience of every
man who hears it uttered. From the chimney-pots
to the cellars of society, great and small,
scholars and clowns, all classes of struggling
humanity are painfully alive to its truth.
</p>

<p>
The men to whom the question is pre-eminently
embarrassing are those who have either
pecuniary expectancies, or possess talents of
some particular kind, on whose recognition by
others their material prosperity depends. It may
be laid down as a general axiom in such cases,
that the worst thing a man can do is to <emph>wait</emph>,
and the best thing he can do is to <emph>work</emph>; that is
to say, that in nine cases out of ten, doing something
has a great advantage over doing nothing.
Such an assertion would appear a mere obvious
truism, and one requiring neither proof nor illustration,
were it not grievously palpable to the
student of the great book of life&mdash;the unwritten
biographical dictionary&mdash;of the world&mdash;that an opposite
system is too often preferred and adopted
by the unfortunate victims of this <q>condition-of-every-body
question,</q> so clearly proposed, and
in countless instances so inefficiently and indefinitely
answered.
</p>

<p>
To multiply dismal examples of such sad cases
of people ruined, starved, and in a variety of
ways fearfully embarrassed and tormented during
the process of expectation, by the policy of
cowardly sloth or feeble hesitation, might, indeed,
<q>point a moral,</q> but would scarcely
<q>adorn a tale.</q> It is doubtless an advantage to
know how to avoid errors, but it is decidedly a
much greater advantage to learn practical truth.
We shall therefore leave the dark side of the
argument with full confidence to the memories,
experience, and imaginations of our readers, and
dwell rather&mdash;as both a more salutary and interesting
consideration&mdash;on the brighter side, in
cases of successful repartee to the grand query,
which our limited personal observation has enabled
us to collect. Besides, there is nothing
attractive or exciting about intellectual inertia.
The contrast between active resistance and passive
endurance is that between a machine at rest
and a machine in motion. Who that has visited
the Great Exhibition can have failed to remark
the difference of interest aroused in the two
cases? What else causes the perambulating dealers
in artificial spiders suspended from threads
to command so great a patronage from the juvenile
population of Paris and London? What
else constitutes the superiority of an advertising-van
over a stationary poster? What sells Alexandre
Dumas's novels, and makes a balloon ascent
such a favorite spectacle? <q>Work, man!</q>
said the philosopher: <q>hast thou not all eternity
to rest in?</q> And to <emph>work</emph>, according to Mill's
<q>Political Economy,</q> is to <emph>move</emph>; therefore
perpetual motion is the great ideal problem of
mechanicians.
</p>

<p>
The first case in our museum is that of a German
officer. He was sent to the coast of Africa
on an exploring expedition, through the agency
of the <foreign rend='italic'>parti prtre</foreign>, or Jesuit party in France, with
whose machinations against Louis Philippe's government
he had become accidentally acquainted.
The Jesuits, finding him opposed to their plans,
determined to remove him from the scene of action.
In consequence of this determination, it so
happened that the captain of the vessel in which
he went out, set sail one fine morning, leaving
our friend on shore to the society and care of the
native negro population. His black acquaintances
for some time treated him with marked
civility; but as the return of the ship became
more and more problematical, familiarity began to
breed its usual progeny, and the unhappy German
found himself in a most painful position.
Hitherto he had not been treated with actual disrespect;
but when King Bocca-Bocca one day
cut him in the most unequivocal manner, he
found himself so utterly neglected, that the sensation
of being a nobody&mdash;a nobody, too, among
niggers!&mdash;for the moment completely overcame
him. A feeble ray of hope was excited shortly
afterward in his despondent heart by a hint
gathered from the signs made by the negro in
whose hut he lived, that a project was entertained
in high quarters of giving him a coat of lamp-black,
and selling him as a slave; but this idea
was abandoned by its originators, possibly for
want of opportunity to carry it out. Now our
adventurer had observed that so long as he had a
charge of gunpowder left to give away, the black
men had almost worshiped him as an incarnation
of the Mumbo-Jumbo adored by their fathers.
Reflecting on this, it occurred to him that if, by
any possibility, he could contrive to manufacture
a fresh supply of the valued commodity, his fortunes
would be comparatively secure.
</p>

<p>
No sooner had this idea arisen in his brain,
than, with prodigious perseverance, he proceeded
to work toward its realization. The worst of it
was, that he knew the native names neither of
<pb n='546'/><anchor id='Pg546'/>
charcoal, sulphur, nor nitre. No matter; his
stern volition was proof against all difficulties.
Having once conveyed his design to the negroes,
he found them eager to assist him, though, as
difficulty after difficulty arose, it required all the
confidence of courage and hopeful energy to control
their savage impatience. The first batch
was a failure, and it was only by pretending that
it was yet unfinished he was enabled to try a
second, in which he triumphed over all obstacles.
When the negroes had really loaded their
muskets with his powder, and fired them off in
celebration of the event, they indeed revered the
stranger as a superior and marvelous being. For
nearly eighteen months the German remained on
the coast. It was a port rarely visited, and the
negroes would not allow him to make any attempt
to travel to a more frequented place. Thus
he continued to make gunpowder for his barbarous
friends, and to live, according to their notions,
<q>like a prince;</q> for to do King Bocca-Bocca
justice, when he learned our friend's value,
he treated him like a man and a brother. What
might have been his fate had he awaited in idle
despondency the arrival of a vessel? As it was,
the negroes crowded the beach, and fired off
repeated salvos at his departure. Doubtless his
name will descend through many a dusky generation
as the teacher of that art which they still
practice, carrying on a lucrative commerce in
gunpowder with the neighboring tribes. A small
square chest of gold-dust, which the escaped victim
of Jesuit fraud brought back to Europe, was
no inappropriate proof of the policy of doing
something <q>in the mean time,</q> while waiting,
however anxiously, to do something else.
</p>

<p>
We knew another case in point, also connected
with the late king of the French. M. de G&mdash;&mdash;
was, on the downfall of that monarch, in possession
of a very handsome pension for past services.
The revolution came, and his pension
was suspended. His wife was a woman of energy:
she saw that the pension might be recovered
by making proper representations in the
right quarters; but she, also, saw that ruinous
embarrassment and debt might accrue in the interim.
Her house was handsomely furnished&mdash;she
had been brought up in the lap of wealth
and luxury. She did not hesitate; she turned
her house into a lodging-house, sank the pride
of rank, attended to all the duties of such a station,
and&mdash;what was the result? When, at the
end of three years, M. de G&mdash;&mdash; recovered his
pension, he owed nobody a farthing, and the
arrears sufficed to dower one of his daughters
about to marry a gentleman of large fortune, who
had become acquainted with her by lodging in
their house. Madame de G&mdash;&mdash;'s fashionable
friends thought her conduct very shocking. But
what might have become of the family in three
years of petitioning?
</p>

<p>
Again: one of our most intimate acquaintance
was an English gentleman, who, having left the
army at the instance of a rich father-in-law, had
the misfortune subsequently to offend the irascible
old gentleman so utterly, that the latter suddenly
withdrew his allowance of 1000 per annum,
and left our friend to shift for himself. His
own means, never very great, were entirely exhausted.
He knew too well the impracticable
temper of his father-in-law to waste time in attempting
to soften him. He also knew that by
his wife's settlement he should be rich at the
death of the old man, who had already passed his
seventieth year. He could not borrow money,
for he had been severely wounded in Syria, and
the insurance-offices refused him: but he felt a
spring of life and youth within him that mocked
their calculations. He took things cheerfully,
and resolved to work for his living. He answered
unnumbered advertisements, and made incessant
applications for all sorts of situations. At
length matters came to a crisis: his money was
nearly gone; time pressed; his wife and child
must be supported. A seat&mdash;not in parliament,
but on the box of an omnibus, was offered him.
He accepted it. The pay was equivalent to
three guineas a week. It was hard work, but he
stuck to it manfully. Not unfrequently it was
his lot to drive gentlemen who had dined at his
table, and drunk his wine in former days. He
never blushed at their recognition; he thought
working easier than begging. For nearly ten
years he endured all the ups and downs of omnibus
life. At last, the tough old father-in-law,
who during the whole interval had never relented,
died; and our hero came into the possession
of some 1500 a year, which he enjoys at
this present moment. Suppose he had borrowed
and drawn bills instead of working during those
ten years, as many have done who had expectancies
before them, where would he have been
on his exit from the Queen's Bench at the
expiration of the period? In the hands of the
Philistines, or of the Jews?
</p>

<p>
Our next specimen is that of a now successful
author, who, owing to the peculiarity of his style,
fell, notwithstanding a rather dashing <foreign rend='italic'>dbut</foreign>, into
great difficulty and distress. His family withdrew
all support, because he abandoned the more
regular prospects of the legal profession for the
more ambitious but less certain career of literature.
He felt that he had the stuff in him to
make a popular writer; but he was also compelled
to admit that popularity was not in his
case to be the work of a day. The <foreign rend='italic'>res angust
domi</foreign> grew closer and closer; and though not
objecting to dispense with the supposed necessity
of dining, he felt that bread and cheese, in the
literal acceptation of the term, were really indispensable
to existence. Hence, one day, he invested
his solitary half-crown in the printing of
a hundred cards, announcing that at the <q>Classical
and Commercial Day-school of Mr. &mdash;&mdash;, &amp;c.,
Young Gentlemen were instructed in all the
Branches, &amp;c., for the moderate sum of Two
Shillings weekly.</q> These cards he distributed
by the agency of the milkman in the suburban
and somewhat poor neighborhood, in which he
occupied a couple of rooms at the moderate rent
of 7<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> weekly. It was not long before a few
pupils made, one by one, their appearance at the
<pb n='547'/><anchor id='Pg547'/>
would-be pedagogue's. As they were mostly the
sons of petty tradesmen round about, he raised
no objection to taking out their schooling in kind,
and by this means earned at least a subsistence
till more prosperous times arrived, and publishers
discovered his latent merits. But for this device,
he might not improbably have shared the fate of
Chatterton and others, less unscrupulous as to a
resource for the <q>mean time</q>&mdash;that rock on
which so many an embryo genius founders.
</p>

<p>
The misfortune of our next case was, not that
<emph>he</emph> abandoned the law, but that the law abandoned
<emph>him</emph>. He was a solicitor in a country town,
where the people were either so little inclined to
litigation, or so happy in not finding cause for it,
that he failed from sheer want of clients, and, as
a natural consequence, betook himself to the
metropolis&mdash;that Mecca <foreign rend='italic'>cum</foreign> Medina of all desperate
pilgrims in search of fickle Fortune.
There his only available friend was a pastry-cook
in a large way of business. It so happened that
the man of tarts and jellies was precisely at that
epoch in want of a foreman and book-keeper, his
last prime-minister having emigrated to America
with a view to a more independent career. Our
ex-lawyer, feeling the consumption of tarts to be
more immediately certain than the demand for
writs, proposed, to his friend's amazement, for
the vacant post; and so well did he fill it, that
in a few years he had saved enough of money to
start again in his old profession. The pastry-cook
and his friends became clients, and he is at
present a thriving attorney in Lincoln's Inn,
none the worse a lawyer for a practical knowledge
of the <foreign rend='italic'>pts</foreign> filled by those oysters whose
shells are the proverbial heritage of his patrons.
</p>

<p>
A still more singular resource was that of a
young gentleman, of no particular profession,
who, having disposed somehow or other in nonprofitable
speculations, of a very moderate inheritance,
found himself what is technically termed
<q>on his beam-ends;</q> so much so, indeed, that
his condition gradually came to verge on positive
destitution; and he sat disconsolately in a little
garret one morning, quite at his wits' end for the
means of contriving what Goethe facetiously
called <q>the delightful habit of existing.</q> Turning
over his scanty remains of clothes and other
possessions, in the vain hope of lighting upon
something of a marketable character, he suddenly
took up a sheet of card-board which in happier
days he had destined for the sketches at
which he was an indifferent adept. He had evidently
formed a plan, however absurd: that was
plain from the odd smile which irradiated his
features. He descended the stairs to borrow of
his landlady&mdash;what? A shilling?&mdash;By no means.
A needle and thread, and a pair of scissors.
Then he took out his box of water-colors and
set to work. To design a picture?&mdash;Not a bit
of it; to make dancing-dolls!&mdash;Yes, the man
without a profession had found a trade. By the
time it was dusk he had made several figures
with movable legs and arms: one bore a rude
resemblance to Napoleon; another, with scarcely
excusable license, represented the Pope; a
third held the very devil up to ridicule; and a
fourth bore a hideous resemblance to the grim
King of Terrors himself! They were but rude
productions as works of art; but there was a spirit
and expression about them that toyshops rarely
exhibit. The ingenious manufacturer then sallied
forth with his merchandise. Within an hour
afterward he might have been seen driving a bargain
with a vagrant dealer in <q>odd notions,</q> as
the Yankees would call them. It is unnecessary
to pursue our artist through all his industrial
progress. Enough that he is now one of the
most successful theatrical machinists, and in the
possession of a wife, a house, and a comfortable
income. He, too, had prospects, and he still
has them&mdash;as far off as ever. Fortunately for
him, he <q>prospected</q> on his own account, and
found a <q>diggin'.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>There is always something to be done, if
people will only set about finding it out, and the
chances are ever in favor of activity. Whatever
brings a man in contact with his fellows may
lead to fortune. Every day brings new opportunities
to the social worker; and no man, if he
has once seriously considered the subject, need
ever be at a loss as to what to do in the mean
time. Volition is primitive motion, and where
there is a will there is a way.</q>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Lost Ages.</head>

<p>
My friends, have you read Elia? If so, follow
me, walking in the shadow of his mild presence,
while I recount to you my vision of the
Lost Ages. I am neither single nor unblessed
with offspring, yet, like Charles Lamb, I have
had my <q>dream children.</q> Years have flown
over me since I stood a bride at the altar. My
eyes are dim and failing, and my hairs are silver-white.
My real children of flesh and blood
have become substantial men and women, carving
their own fortunes, and catering for their
own tastes in the matter of wives and husbands,
leaving their old mother, as nature ordereth, to
the stillness and repose fitted for her years.
Understand, this is not meant to imply that the
fosterer of their babyhood, the instructor of their
childhood, the guide of their youth is forsaken
or neglected by those who have sprang up to
maturity beneath her eye. No; I am blessed
in my children. Living apart, I yet see them
often; their joys, their cares are mine. Not a
Sabbath dawns but it finds me in the midst of
them; not a holiday or a festival of any kind is
noted in the calendar of their lives, but grand-mamma
is the first to be sent for. Still, of necessity,
I pass much of my time alone; and old
age is given to reverie quite as much as youth.
I can remember a time&mdash;long, long ago&mdash;when
in the twilight of a summer evening it was a
luxury to sit apart, with closed eyes; and, heedless
of the talk that went on in the social circle
from which I was withdrawn, indulge in all sorts
of fanciful visions. Then my dream-people were
all full-grown men and women. I do not recollect
that I ever thought about children until I possessed
some of my own. Those waking visions
<pb n='548'/><anchor id='Pg548'/>
were very sweet&mdash;sweeter than the realities of
life that followed; but they were neither half so
curious nor half so wonderful as the dreams that
sometimes haunt me now. The imagination of
the old is not less lively than that of the young:
it is only less original. A youthful fancy will
create more new images; the mind of age requires
materials to build with: these supplied,
the combinations it is capable of forming are endless.
And so were born my dream-children.
</p>

<p>
Has it never occurred to you, mothers and fathers,
to wonder what has become of your children's
lost ages? Look at your little boy of five
years old. Is he at all, in any respect, the same
breathing creature that you beheld three years
back? I think not. Whither, then, has the
sprite vanished? In some hidden fairy nook, in
some mysterious cloud-land he must exist still.
Again, in your slim-formed girl of eight years,
you look in vain for the sturdy elf of five. Gone?
No; that can not be&mdash;<q>a thing of beauty is a
joy forever.</q> Close your eyes: you have her
there! A breeze-like, sportive buoyant thing;
a thing of breathing, laughing, unmistakable life;
she is mirrored on your retina as plainly as ever
was dancing sunbeam on a brook. The very
trick of her lip&mdash;of her eye; the mischief-smile,
the sidelong saucy glance,
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l rend='margin-left: 12'><q rend='pre'>That seems to say,</q></l>
<l><q rend='post'><q>I know you love me, Mr. Grey:</q></q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

<p>
is it not traced there&mdash;all, every line, as clear as
when it brightened the atmosphere about you in
the days that are no more? To be sure it is;
and being so, the thing must exist&mdash;somewhere.
</p>

<p>
I never was more fully possessed with this
conviction than once during the winter of last
year. It was Christmas-eve. I was sitting
alone, in my old arm-chair, and had been looking
forward to the fast-coming festival day with many
mingled thoughts&mdash;some tender, but regretful;
others hopeful yet sad; some serious, and even
solemn. As I laid my head back and sat thus
with closed eyes, listening to the church-clock
as it struck the hour, I could not but feel that I
was passing&mdash;very slowly and gently it is true&mdash;toward
a time when the closing of the grave
would shut out even that sound so familiar to my
ear; and when other and more precious sounds
of life&mdash;human voices, dearer than all else, would
cease to have any meanings for me&mdash;and even
their very echoes be hushed in the silence of the
one long sleep. Following the train of association,
it was natural that I should recur to the hour
when that same church's bells had chimed my
wedding-peal. I seemed to hear their music
once again; and other music sweeter still&mdash;the
music of young vows that <q>that kept the word
of promise to the ear, and broke it</q> <emph>not</emph> <q>to the
hope.</q> Next in succession came the recollection
of my children. I seemed to lose sight of
their present identity, and to be carried away in
thought to times and scenes far back in my long-departed
youth, when they were growing up
around my knees&mdash;beautiful forms of all ages,
from the tender nursling of a single year springing
with outstretched arms into my bosom, to
the somewhat rough but ingenuous boy of ten.
As my inner eye traced their different outlines,
and followed them in their graceful growth from
year to year, my heart was seized with a sudden
and irresistible longing to hold fast those beloved
but passing images of the brain. What joy, I
thought, would it be, to transfix the matchless
beauty which had wrought itself thus into the
visions of my old age! to preserve, forever, unchanging,
every varied phase of that material
but marvelous structure, which the glorious human
soul had animated and informed through all
its progressive stages from the child to the man.
</p>

<p>
Scarcely was the thought framed when a dull,
heavy weight seemed to press upon my closed
eyelids. I now saw more clearly even than before
my children's images in the different stages
of their being. But I saw these, and these alone,
as they stood rooted to the ground, with a stony
fixedness in their eyes: every other object grew
dim before me. The living faces and full-grown
forms which until now had mingled with and
played their part among my younger phantoms
altogether disappeared. I had no longer any
eyes, any soul, but for this my new spectre-world.
Life, and the things of life, had lost
their interest; and I knew of nothing, conceived
of nothing, but those still, inanimate forms from
which the informing soul had long since passed
away.
</p>

<p>
And now that the longing of my heart was
answered, was I satisfied? For a time I gazed,
and drew a deep delight from the gratification
of my vain and impious craving. But at length
the still, cold presence of forms no longer of this
earth began to oppress me. I grew cold and
numb beneath their moveless aspect; and constant
gazing upon eyes lighted up by no varying
expression, pressed upon my tired senses with a
more than nightmare weight. I felt a sort of
dull stagnation through every limb, which held
me bound where I sat, pulseless and moveless as
the phantoms on which I gazed.
</p>

<p>
As I wrestled with the feeling that oppressed
me, striving in vain to break the bonds of that
strange fascination, under the pressure of which
I surely felt that I must perish&mdash;a soft voice,
proceeding from whence I knew not, broke upon my
ear. <q>You have your desire,</q> it said gently;
<q>why, then, struggle thus? Why writhe under
the magic of that joy you have yourself called
up? Are they not here before you, the Lost
Ages whose beauty and whose grace you would
perpetuate? What would you more? O mortal!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But these forms have no life,</q> I gasped; <q>no
pulsating, breathing soul!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No,</q> replied the same still, soft voice;
<q>these forms belong to the things of the past.
In God's good time they breathed the breath of
life; they had <emph>then</emph> a being and a purpose on this
earth. Their day has departed&mdash;their work is
done.</q>
</p>

<p>
So saying, the voice grew still: the leaden
weight which had pressed upon my eyelids was
lifted off: I awoke.
</p>

<pb n='549'/><anchor id='Pg549'/>

<p>
Filled with reveries of the past&mdash;my eyes
closed to every thing without&mdash;sleep had indeed
overtaken me as I sat listening to the old church-clock.
But my vision was not all a vision: my
dream-children came not without their teaching.
If they had been called up in folly, yet in their
going did they leave behind a lesson of wisdom.
</p>

<p>
The morning dawned&mdash;the blessed Christmas-morning!
With it came my good and dutiful,
my real life-children. When they were all
assembled round me, and when, subdued and
thoughtful beneath the tender and gracious associations
of the day, each in turn ministered,
reverently and lovingly, to the old mother's need
of body and of soul, my heart was melted within
me. Blessed, indeed, was I in a lot full to
overflowing of all the good gifts which a wise
and merciful Maker could lavish upon his erring
and craving creature. I stood reproved. I felt
humbled to think that I should ever for a moment
have indulged one idle or restless longing
for the restoration of that past which had done
its appointed work, and out of which so gracious
a present had arisen. One idea impressed me
strongly: I could not but feel that had the craving
of my soul been answered in reality, as my
dream had foreshadowed; and had the wise and
beneficent order of nature been disturbed and
distorted from its just relations, how fearful
would have been the result! Here, in my green
old age, I stood among a new generation, honored
for what I was, beloved for what I had
been. What if, at some mortal wish in some
freak of nature, the form which I now bore were
forever to remain before the eyes of my children!
Were such a thing to befall, how would their
souls ever be lifted upward to the contemplation
of that higher state of being into which it is my
hope soon to pass when the hand which guided
me hither shall beckon me hence? At the
thought my heart was chastened. Never since
that night have I indulged in any one wish framed
in opposition to nature's laws. <emph>Now</emph> I find my
dream-children in the present; and to the past I
yield willingly all things which are its own&mdash;among
the rest, the Lost Ages.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Blighted Flowers.</head>

<p>
The facts of the following brief narrative,
which are very few, and of but melancholy
interest, became known to me in the precise
order in which they are laid before the reader.
They were forced upon my observation rather
than sought out by me; and they present, to
my mind at least, a touching picture of the bitter
conflict industrious poverty is sometimes called
upon to wage with <q>the thousand natural
shocks which flesh is heir to.</q>
</p>

<p>
It must be now eight or nine years since, in
traversing a certain street, which runs for nearly
half a mile in direct line southward, I first encountered
Ellen &mdash;&mdash;. She was then a fair young
girl of seventeen, rather above the middle size,
and with a queen-like air and gait, which made
her appear taller than she really was. Her
countenance, pale but healthy and of a perfectly
regular and classic mould, was charming to look
upon from its undefinable expression of lovableness
and sweet temper. Her tiny feet tripped
noiselessly along the pavement, and a glance
from her black eye sometimes met mine like a
ray of light, as, punctually at twenty minutes to
nine, we passed each other near &mdash;&mdash; House,
each of us on our way to the theatre of our
daily operations. She was an embroideress, as
I soon discovered from a small stretching-frame,
containing some unfinished work, which she occasionally
carried in her hand. She set me a
worthy example of punctuality, and I could any
day have told the time to a minute without looking
at my watch, by marking the spot where we
passed each other. I learned to look for her
regularly, and before I knew her name, had given
her that of <q>Minerva,</q> in acknowledgment of
her efficiency as a mentor.
</p>

<p>
A year after the commencement of our acquaintance,
which never ripened into speech,
happening to set out from home one morning a
quarter of an hour before my usual time, I made
the pleasing discovery that my juvenile Minerva
had a younger sister, if possible still more beautiful
than herself. The pair were taking an affectionate
leave of each other at the crossing of the
New Road, and the silver accents of the younger
as kissing her sister, she laughed out, <q>Good-by,
Ellen,</q> gave me the first information of the real
name of my pretty mentor. The little Mary&mdash;for
so was the younger called, who could not be more
than eleven years of age&mdash;was a slender, frolicsome
sylph, with a skin of the purest carnation,
and a face like that of Sir Joshua's seraph in
the National Gallery, but with larger orbs and
longer lashes shading them. As she danced and
leaped before me on her way home again, I could
not but admire the natural ease and grace of
every motion, nor fail to comprehend and sympathize
with the anxious looks of the sisters'
only parent, their widowed mother, who stood
watching the return of the younger darling at the
door of a very humble two-storied dwelling, in
the vicinity of the New River Head.
</p>

<p>
Nearly two years passed away, during which,
with the exception of Sundays and holidays,
every recurring morning brought me the grateful
though momentary vision of one or both of
the charming sisters. Then came an additional
pleasure&mdash;I met them both together every day.
The younger had commenced practicing the
same delicate and ingenious craft of embroidery,
and the two pursued their industry in company
under the same employer. It was amusing to
mark the demure assumption of womanhood
darkening the brows of the aerial little sprite, as,
with all the new-born consequence of responsibility,
she walked soberly by her sister's side,
frame in hand, and occasionally revealed to passers-by
a brief glimpse of her many-colored
handiwork. They were the very picture of beauty
and happiness, and happy beyond question must
their innocent lives have been for many pleasant
months. But soon the shadows of care began
to steal over their hitherto joyous faces, and
<pb n='550'/><anchor id='Pg550'/>
traces of anxiety, perhaps of tears, to be too
plainly visible on their paling cheeks. All at
once I missed them in my morning's walk, and
for several days&mdash;it might be weeks&mdash;saw nothing
of them. I was at length startled from my
forgetfulness of their very existence by the sudden
apparition of both, one Monday morning, clad
in the deepest mourning. I saw the truth at
once: the mother, who, I had remarked, was
prematurely old and feeble, was gone, and the
two orphan children were left to battle it with
the world. My conjecture was the truth, as a
neighbor of whom I made some inquiries on the
subject was not slow to inform me. <q> Ah, sir,</q>
said the good woman, <q>poor Mrs. D&mdash;&mdash; have
had a hard time of it, and she born an' bred a
gentleooman.</q>
</p>

<p>
I asked her if the daughters were provided for.
</p>

<p>
<q>Indeed, sir,</q> continued my informant, <q>I'm
afeard not. 'Twas the most unfortunatest thing
in the world, sir, poor Mr. D&mdash;&mdash;'s dying jest as
a' did. You see, sir, he war a soldier, a-fightin'
out in Indy, and his poor wife lef at home wi'
them two blossoms o' gals. He warn't what you
call a common soldier, sir, but some kind o' officer
like; an' in some great battle fought seven
year agone he done fine service I've heerd, and
promotion was sent out to un', but didn't get
there till the poor man was dead of his wounds.
The news of he's death cut up his poor wife
complete, and she ban't been herself since. I've
know'd she wasn't long for here ever since it
come. Wust of all, it seems that because the
poor man was dead the very day the promotion
reached 'un, a' didn't die a captain after all, and
so the poor widder didn't get no pension. How
they've managed to live is more than I can tell.
The oldest gal is very clever, they say; but Lor'
bless 'ee! 'taint much to s'port three as is to be
got out o' broiderin'.</q>
</p>

<p>
Thus enlightened on the subject of their private
history, it was with very different feelings I afterward
regarded these unfortunate children. Bereft
of both parents, and cast upon a world with
the ways of which they were utterly unacquainted,
and in which they might be doomed to the
most painful struggles even to procure a bare
subsistence, one treasure was yet left them&mdash;it
was the treasure of each other's love. So far as
the depth of this feeling could be estimated from
the looks and actions of both, it was all in all to
each. But the sacred bond that bound them was
destined to be rudely rent asunder. The cold
winds of autumn began to visit too roughly the
fair pale face of the younger girl, and the unmistakable
indications of consumption made their
appearance: the harassing cough, the hectic
cheek, the deep-settled pain in the side, the failing
breath. Against these dread forerunners it
was vain long to contend; and the poor child
had to remain at home in her solitary sick chamber,
while the loving sister toiled&mdash;harder than
ever to provide, if possible, the means of comfort
and restoration to health. All the world knows
the ending of such a hopeless strife as this. It is
sometimes the will of Heaven, that the path of
virtue, like that of glory, leads but to the grave.
So it was in the present instance: the blossom
of this fair young life withered away, and the
grass-fringed lips of the child's early tomb closed
over the lifeless relics ere spring had dawned
upon the year.
</p>

<p>
Sorrow had graven legible traces upon the
brow of my hapless mentor when I saw her
again. How different now was the vision that
greeted my daily sight from that of former years!
The want that admits not of idle wailing compelled
her still to pursue her daily course of
labor, and she pursued it with the same constancy
and punctuality as she had ever done.
But the exquisitely chiseled face, the majestic
gait, the elastic step&mdash;the beauty and glory of
youth, unshaken because unassaulted by death
and sorrow&mdash;where were they? Alas! all the
bewitching charms of her former being had gone
down into the grave of her mother and sister;
and she, their support and idol, seemed no more
now than she really was&mdash;a wayworn, solitary,
and isolated struggler for daily bread.
</p>

<p>
Were this a fiction that I am writing, it would
be an easy matter to deal out a measure of poetical
justice, and to recompense poor Ellen for
all her industry, self-denial, and suffering in the
arms of a husband, who should possess as many
and great virtues as herself, and an ample fortune
to boot. I wish with all my heart that it
were a fiction, and that Providence had never
furnished me with such a seeming anomaly to
add to the list of my desultory chronicles. But
I am telling a true story of a life. Ellen found
no mate. No mate, did I say? Yes, one: the
same grim yoke-fellow, whose delight it is <q>to
gather roses in the spring,</q> paid ghastly court
to her faded charms, and won her&mdash;who shall
say an unwilling bride? I could see his gradual
but deadly advances in my daily walks: the
same indications that gave warning of the sister's
fate admonished me that she also was on
her way to the tomb, and that the place that had
known her would soon know her no more. She
grew day by day more feeble; and one morning
I found her seated on the step of a door, unable
to proceed. After that she disappeared from my
view; and though I never saw her again at the
old spot, I have seldom passed that spot since,
though for many years following the same route,
without recognizing again in my mind's eye the
graceful form and angel aspect of Ellen D&mdash;&mdash;.
</p>

<p>
<q>And is this the end of your mournful history?</q>
some querulous reader demands. Not
quite. There is a soul of good in things evil.
Compassion dwells with the depths of misery;
and in the valley of the shadow of death dove-eyed
Charity walks with shining wings.... It
was nearly two months after I had lost sight of
poor Ellen, that during one of my dinner-hour
perambulations about town, I looked in, almost
accidentally, upon my old friend and chum, Jack
W&mdash;&mdash;. Jack keeps a perfumer's shop not a
hundred miles from Gray's Inn, where, ensconced
up to his eyes in delicate odors, he passes his
leisure hours&mdash;the hours when commerce flags,
<pb n='551'/><anchor id='Pg551'/>
and people have more pressing affairs to attend
to than the delectation of their nostrils&mdash;in the
enthusiastic study of art and <foreign rend='italic'>virtu</foreign>. His shop is
hardly more crammed with bottles and attar,
soap, scents, and all the <foreign rend='italic'>et ceteras</foreign> of the toilet,
than the rest of his house with prints, pictures,
carvings, and curiosities of every sort. Jack and
I went to school together, and sowed our slender
crop of wild-oats together; and, indeed, in some
sort, have been together ever since. We both
have our own collections of rarities; such as
they are, and each criticises the other's new
purchases. On the present occasion, there was
a new Van Somebody's old painting awaiting my
judgment; and no sooner did my shadow darken
his door, than, starting from his lair, and bidding
the boy ring the bell, should he be wanted, he
bustled me up-stairs calling by the way to his
housekeeper, Mrs. Jones&mdash;Jack is a bachelor&mdash;to
bring up coffee for two. I was prepared to
pronounce my dictum on his newly-acquired
treasure, and was going to bounce unceremoniously
into the old lumber-room over the lobby
to regale my sight with the delightful confusion
of his unarranged accumulations, when he pulled
me forcibly back by the coat-tail. <q>Not there,</q>
said Jack; <q>you can't go there. Go into my
snuggery.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And why not there?</q> said I, jealous of some
new purchase which I was not to see.
</p>

<p>
<q>Because there's some body ill there; it is a
bed-room now; a poor girl; she wanted a place
to die in, poor thing, and I put her in there.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Who is she?&mdash;a relative?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No; I never saw her till Monday last. Sit
down, I'll tell you how it was. Set down the
coffee, Mrs. Jones, and just look in upon the
patient, will you? Sugar and cream? You
know my weakness for the dead-wall in Lincoln's-Inn-Fields.</q>
(Jack never refuses a beggar
backed by that wall, for the love of Ben
Jonson, who, he devoutly believes, had a hand
in building it.) <q>Well, I met with her there on
Monday last. She asked for nothing, but held
out her hand, and as she did so the tears streamed
from her eyes on the pavement. The poor
creature, it was plain enough, was then dying;
and I told her so. She said she knew it, but
had no place to die in but the parish workhouse,
and hoped that I would not send her there.
What's the use of talking? I brought her here,
and put her to sleep on the sofa while Jones
cleared out the lumber-room and got up a bed.
I sent for Dr. H&mdash;&mdash; to look at her; he gave her
a week or ten days at the farthest: I don't think
she'll last so long. The curate of St. &mdash;&mdash; comes
every day to see her, and I like to talk to her
myself sometimes. Well, Mrs. Jones, how goes
she on?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>She's asleep,</q> said the housekeeper. <q>Would
you like to look at her, gentlemen?</q>
</p>

<p>
We entered the room together. It was as if
some unaccountable presentiment had forewarned
me: there, upon a snow-white sheet, and pillowed
by my friend's favorite eider-down squab,
lay the wasted form of Ellen D&mdash;&mdash;. She slept
soundly and breathed loudly; and Dr. H&mdash;&mdash;,
who entered while we stood at the bedside, informed
us that in all probability she would awake
only to die, or if to sleep again, then to wake no
more. The latter was the true prophecy. She
awoke an hour or two after my departure, and
passed away that same night in a quiet slumber
without a pang.
</p>

<p>
I never learned by what chain of circumstances
she was driven to seek alms in the public streets.
I might have done so, perhaps, by inquiry, but
to what purpose? She died in peace, with friendly
hands and friendly hearts near her, and Jack
buried her in his own grave in Highgate Cemetery,
at his own expense; and declares he is
none the worse for it. I am of his opinion.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Monthly Record of Current Events.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>United States.</head>

<p>
The past month has not been marked by any domestic
event of interest or importance. The
principal topic of public discussion has been the
character of Kossuth and of the cause he represents.
Public opinion is divided as to the propriety of acceding
to his request that this country should take
an active part in the struggles of Europe; and somewhat,
also, as to the rightfulness of his claim to be
regarded as still the Governor of Hungary. But
there is no difference of opinion as to the wonderful
ability which his speeches display. Kossuth has
continued his progress Westward, and at the time
of closing this Record is at Cincinnati. He visited
Pittsburgh, Harrisburgh, Cleveland and Columbus,
on his way, and was received at each place with
marked demonstrations of respect and confidence.
Large sums of money have also been contributed in
each, in aid of his cause. He has publicly declined
to receive any more public entertainments of any
sort, on the ground that they involve a wasteful expenditure
of money and lead to no good result
</p>

<p>
Whatever funds any town, or any individuals may
be inclined to devote to him, he desires should be
contributed to the cause and not expended in any
demonstrations of which he may be the object. His
speeches have been devoted to an exposition of his
wishes and sentiments, and all bear marks of that
fertility of thought and expression which has excited
such general admiration.
</p>

<p>
A very warm discussion, meantime, has sprung
up among the exiled Hungarian leaders, of the merits
of the cause and of Kossuth. Prince Esterhazy, at
one time a member of the Hungarian ministry, a nobleman
possessed of large domains in Hungary, first
published a letter, dated Vienna, November 13, in
which he threw upon the movement of 1848 the reproach
of having been not only injurious to the country,
but unjust and revolutionary. He vindicated
the cause of the Austrian government throughout,
and reproached Kossuth and those associated with
him in the Hungarian contest with having sacrificed
one of Kossuth's Ministers, and a refugee with him
the interests of their country to personal purposes
<pb n='552'/><anchor id='Pg552'/>
and unworthy ends. Count Casimir Batthyani, also
in Turkey, now resident in Paris, soon published a
reply to this letter of the Prince, in which he refuted
his positions in regard to the Austrian government,
proving that dynasty to have provoked the war by a
series of unendurable treacheries, and to have sought,
systematically, the destruction of the independence
and constitution of Hungary. He reproached Esterhazy
with an interested desertion of his country's
cause, and with gross inconsistency of personal and
public conduct. He closed his letter with a very
bitter denunciation of Kossuth, charging upon his
weakness and vacillation the unfortunate results of
the contest, denying his right to the title of Governor,
and censuring his course of agitation as springing
simply from personal vanity, and likely to lead
to no good result. To this letter Count Pulszky,
now with Kossuth, published a brief reply, which
was mainly an appeal to the Hungarian leaders not
to destroy their cause by divisions among themselves.
He also alleged that Count Batthyani did not express
the same opinion of the character and conduct of
Kossuth during the Hungarian contest, but made
himself, to some extent, responsible for both by being
associated in the government with him and giving
his countenance and support to all his acts. Still
more recently two letters have been published from
Mr. Szemere, who was also intimately and responsibly
connected with Kossuth and his government, and
who brought forward in the Diet, immediately after
the Declaration of Independence, on behalf of the
Ministry of which he was the President, a programme
declaring that the future form of government
in Hungary would be republican. In one of his letters,
dated at Paris, January 4th, he censures Kossuth
very severely for his misconduct of the war, and
of his subsequent course. Referring especially to
Kossuth's abdication of office and to his transfer of
power to the hands of Grgey, he alleges that although
it was done in the name of the Ministry, of which
he was a member, he never either subscribed or even
saw it. He says that Kossuth having repeatedly denounced
Grgey as a traitor, ought not to have put
supreme power in his hands. He charges him also
with having fled to Turkey and deserted the cause
of his country, while there were still left four fortresses
and over a hundred thousand men to fight for
her liberties; and says that the rest of the army surrendered
only because Kossuth had fled. He denies
Kossuth's right to the title and office of Governor,
because he voluntarily resigned that position, and
transferred its powers to another. Much as he might
rejoice in the success of Kossuth's efforts to excite
the sympathy of the world on behalf of Hungary,
Mr. Szemere says that <q>to recognize him as Governor,
or as he earnestly claims to be acknowledged,
the absolute Dictator, would be equivalent to devoting
the cause of Hungary, for a second time, to a severe
downfall. We welcome, him, therefore, in our ranks
only as a single gifted patriot, perhaps even the first
among his equals, but as Governor we can not acknowledge
him, we who know his past career, and
who value divine liberty, and our beloved fatherland
above every personal consideration.</q> But while
conceding fully the justice of the censures bestowed
upon Kossuth himself, he claims that the cause of
Hungary was at least as pure and holy as the war
of the American Revolution&mdash;that they were the defenders
of right and law against the efforts of faithlessness
and anarchy&mdash;that they were the heroes,
the apostles, the martyrs of freedom under the persecutions
of tyranny.&mdash;In another letter, dated at
Paris, December 9, Mr. Szemere addresses Prince
Esterhazy directly, and in a tone of great severity.
He denounces him for ignorance of the history of his
country, and for guilty indifference to her rights, and
proceeds, in an argument of great strength, to vindicate
the cause in which they were both engaged,
from the calumnies of false friends. He gives a clear
and condensed historical sketch of the contest, and
shows that Hungary never swerved from her rightful
allegiance until driven by the faithlessness and
relentless hostility of the Austrian dynasty to take up
arms in self-defense. Being himself a republican,
Mr. Szemere thinks that although it was honorable
and loyal, it was not prudent or politic for the nation
to cling so long to legitimacy: still <q>the heroism of
remaining so long in the path of constitutional legality
redounds to its glory; the short-sightedness of
entering so late on the path of revolution is its shame.</q>
He closes by expressing the trust and firm conviction
of every Hungarian that the harms his country now
suffers will be repaired.&mdash;Count Teleki, who represented
Hungary at Paris, during the existence of the
provisional government, and who now resides at
Zurich, has also published a letter in reply to that
of Prince Esterhazy, in which he vindicates Count
Louis Batthyani from the unjust reproaches of the
Prince, and pursues substantially the same line of
argument as that of the letter of Mr. Szemere.&mdash;Mr.
Vakovies, who was one of the Cabinet, also publishes
a letter vindicating Kossuth from the accusation
of Batthyani.
</p>

<p>
These conflicting representations from persons who
were prominently and responsibly connected with the
Hungarian government, of course create difficulties
in the way of forming clear opinions upon the subject
in the United States. The points of difference, however,
relate mainly to persons and particular events,
upon the main question, the rightfulness of the Hungarian
struggle, little room is left for doubt.
</p>

<p>
The proceedings of Congress have been unimportant.
The sum of $15,000 has been appropriated to
the refitting that part of the Congressional library
which was destroyed by fire. The subject of printing
the census returns has engaged a good deal of
attention, but no result has yet been attained. Resolutions
were introduced into the Senate some time
since by Mr. Cass, asking the friendly interposition
of our government with that of Great Britain, for the
release of the Irish State prisoners. Several Senators
have made speeches upon the subject, nearly all
in their favor, but with more or less qualifications.
The Compromise resolutions, originally offered by
Senator Foote, were discussed for several days, without
reaching a vote, and they have since been informally
dropped. The resolutions offered by Senators
Clarke, Seward, and Cass, on the subject of protesting
against intervention, came up for consideration
on the 2d of February, when Senator Stockton made
an extended speech upon the subject&mdash;favoring the
Hungarian cause, but expressing an unwillingness to
join Great Britain in any such policy, and saying
Russia has always evinced friendly dispositions toward
the United States. Senator Clarke on the 9th,
made a speech upon the same subject, against any
action on the part of our government. On the 11th,
Senator Cass made an elaborate speech in support
of his resolution, in which he vindicated the right,
and asserted the duty of the United States to pronounce
its opinion upon the interference of despotic
states against the efforts of nations to free themselves
from oppression. He opposed the idea of
armed intervention on our part, but insisted upon the
propriety of our exercising a decided moral influence.
On the 13th Senator Clemens spoke in reply, insisting
<pb n='553'/><anchor id='Pg553'/>
that movements in Europe had neither interest
nor importance for the United States, denying the
justice of the Hungarian struggle, and assailing the
character of Kossuth.
</p>

<p>
The correspondence between the governments of
England and the United States in regard to the insult
offered to the steamer Prometheus by the English
brig-of-war Express, at Greytown, has been published.
The first letter is from Mr. Webster to Mr. Lawrence,
instructing him to inquire whether the English government
sanctioned the act of the officer. The last
is from Earl Granville, dated January 10th, in which
he states that an official statement of the case had
been received. The Vice Admiral on the West Indian
Station had already disavowed the act, and
denied the right of any British vessel to enforce the
fiscal regulations of Mosquito, and had forbidden the
Commander of the Express from again employing
force in any similar case. Earl Granville states that
these representations were fully ratified by the English
government; and that they entirely disavowed
the act of violence, and had no hesitation in offering
an ample apology for that which they consider to have
been an infraction of treaty engagements.
</p>

<p>
Official intelligence has been received of the appointment
of John S. Crompton, Esq., who has been
for some years connected with the British legation at
Washington, as Minister Plenipotentiary in place of
Sir Henry Bulwer.&mdash;It is understood that Mr. John
S. Thrasher, who was convicted of sundry offenses
against the Spanish authority in Cuba, and sentenced
to imprisonment for seven years on the African coast,
has been pardoned by the Queen of Spain, as have
also all the Cuban prisoners.
</p>

<p>
The political parties are beginning to take measures
concerning the approaching Presidential election.
The Whigs in the Legislature of Maine held a
meeting on the 27th of January, at which they adopted
a series of resolutions, in favor of a National Convention
to be held at Philadelphia on the 17th of
June, and nominating General Scott for President,
and Governor Jones of Tennessee, for Vice-President,
subject to the decision of that Convention. A
Democratic State Convention was held at Austin,
Texas, January 8th, at which resolutions were adopted,
setting forth the party creed, and nominating
General Houston for the Presidency.&mdash;In Alabama
a Democratic State Convention has nominated William
R. King for the Presidency.
</p>

<p>
The Legislature of Wisconsin met on the 15th of
January. Governor Farwell's Message states that
owing to the want of funds, the appropriations of last
year were not paid within the sum of $38,283. He
recommends the passage of a general banking law,
and amendments of the school law, and opposes
granting public lands in aid of works of internal improvement.
He advises that Congress be memorialized
upon sundry topics of general interest, among
which are the establishment of an Agricultural bureau,
the improvement of rivers and harbors, and a
modification of the present tariff.&mdash;The Legislature
of Louisiana met on the 26th ult. The Governor's
Message is mainly devoted to local topics.
He advises the appropriation of money for a monument
to General Jackson.&mdash;The Legislature of
Texas has been discussing a proposition to appropriate
a million of dollars, of the five millions to be received
from the United States, together with other
funds, to the establishment of a system of Common
Schools. The bill had passed the House.&mdash;A bill
has been passed ratifying the classification of the
public debt submitted by the Governor and Comptroller.
</p>

<p>
A letter from Honorable James Buchanan has been
published, addressed to a Mississippi Democratic
Convention, urging the necessity of a strict limitation
of the powers of the Federal Government, and attributing
to a growing spirit of centralization the evils
we now experience.&mdash;Colonel Benton has also
written a letter to the Democracy of St. Louis County,
urging them to blot from the records of the Legislature,
the resolutions in favor of nullification, adopted
some time since.
</p>

<p>
From <hi rend='smallcaps'>California</hi> we have news to Jan. 20th. It
is not, however, of much importance. The country
had been visited by a succession of very heavy rain
storms, which had swollen the rivers, and in some
cases cut off land communication between the towns.
The location of the seat of government is still undecided.
The Indian difficulties had been quelled for
the present at least, but fears were entertained of new
outbreaks. Fresh discoveries of gold were still made.
</p>

<p>
One-third of the city of San Juan de Nicaragua,
the most valuable portion, was destroyed by fire on
the 4th of February.
</p>

<p>
Later advices from <hi rend='smallcaps'>New Mexico</hi> represent the
condition of the southern part of the country as most
unhappy, in consequence of the violent and deadly
hostility of the Apache Indians. They have been
provoked by the Mexicans, and wreak their vengeance
indiscriminately on the whole country. The
provisions of the U. S. Government for keeping the
Indians in check have been wholly unavailing, mainly
from a wrong disposition of the troops. Steps are
now taken to establish posts at various points throughout
the Indian Country, as this has been found the
most effectual means for preventing their depredations.&mdash;The
silver mine discovered at Taos proves
to be exceedingly rich; and the gold diggings on the
Gila are as productive as ever.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Mexico.</head>

<p>
We have intelligence from the City of Mexico to
the 28th of December. Congress was again in session,
but had not completed its organization. On the
20th, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Seor Ramirez,
received the representatives of Foreign Powers, and
listened to extended remarks from them in favor of
modifications in the Mexican tariff. The whole subject
will probably soon be brought before Congress.
The Indians in the State of Durango continue their
ravages; the inefficiency of the measures taken
against them by the government is loudly condemned.
A riot, directed against the government, occurred on
the 18th, in the State of Puebla, but it was speedily
suppressed. In Tehuantepec a more serious movement
had occurred under the lead of Ex-Governor
Ortis; it was defeated after a contest of over four
hours. At Cerro Gerdo also, on the 12th, there was
a revolt of most of the forces of the Uragua Colony
against their chiefs, but it was soon put down.&mdash;It is
stated on authority that seems entitled to respect,
that Santa Anna is planning a new revolutionary
movement, and that he designs to make his descent
at Acapulco on the Pacific coast. A house has been
built there for him, and many of the utensils of a
camp and munitions for a campaign are arriving there.
It is said that all the officials of that department are
friendly to him, and would readily co-operate in his
designs.&mdash;The Mexican government seems to be satisfied
that the revolutionary movement in Northern
Mexico has been completely quelled; but our advices
from that quarter scarcely justify that confidence.
At the latest date, Jan. 23d, Caravajal was on the
Rio Grande, with a force of 700 men and several
pieces of artillery, and was constantly receiving
reinforcements. Several persons connected with the
<pb n='554'/><anchor id='Pg554'/>
movement were in New Orleans engaged in procuring
and shipping supplies for the revolutionists. Gen.
Uraga had been relieved from the command at Matamoras,
and succeeded by Gen. Avalos. Upon his departure
Col. Harney, in command of the U. S. troops
on the frontier, addressed him in a letter, thanking
him for the facilities he had received from him in the
discharge of his duties, and expressing the warmest
admiration of his character and services. The Mexican
force defending Matamoros is stated at about
twelve hundred men.&mdash;The official report of the battle
of Ceralvo states the number of killed at six, and
of wounded twenty-one,
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Great Britain.</head>

<p>
The burning of the steamer Amazon, with a dreadful
loss of life, is the event of most interest which
has occurred in England during the past month.
She belonged to the West India Company's line of
steam-packets, and sailed on her first voyage from
Southampton on Friday the 2d of January. At a
quarter before one o'clock on Sunday morning, a fire
broke out suddenly, forward on the starboard side,
between the steam-chest and the under part of the
galley, and the flames instantly rushed up the gangway
in front of the foremost funnel. The alarm was
at once given, the officers and crew rushed upon
deck, and steps were taken to extinguish the fire.
But the ship was built of fir, and was very dry, and
the flames seized it like tinder. The whole vessel
was speedily enveloped in fire. The mail-boat was
lowered, but was instantly swamped, and twenty-five
people in her were drowned. The other boats were
lowered with a good deal of difficulty. Only two,
however, succeeded in saving life. The life-boat
got loose from the ship with twenty-one persons, and
after being at sea thirty hours, was picked up by an
English brig, and landed at Plymouth. Another
boat, with twenty-five persons on board, succeeded
in reaching the French coast. There were 161 persons
on board, of whom 115 are supposed to have
perished. Among the latter was the well-known
author, Eliot Warburton, who was on his way to the
Isthmus of Darien, whither he had been sent by the
Pacific Junction Company to negotiate a friendly
understanding with the Indians. The Amazon was
commanded by Captain William Symons, a gentleman
of known ability, who also perished. Among
those saved were two ladies. The English papers
are filled with details and incidents of this sad catastrophe,
which, of course, we have not space to copy.
An investigation into the origin of the fire, and the
circumstances of the disaster, has been made, but no
satisfactory result has been reached. The machinery
was new, and its working was attended with very
great heat, which facilitated the progress of the fire
after it had broken out. A great deal of confusion
seems to have prevailed on board, but it does not
appear that any thing practicable was left undone.
The two ladies saved were a Mrs. MacLennan,
who got into the life-boat in her night dress with
her child, eighteen months old, in her arms, and a
Miss Smith, who escaped in the other boat. The
value of the Amazon was 100,000, and she was not
insured.
</p>

<p>
The English press continues to discuss French
affairs with great eagerness. The whole of Louis
Napoleon's proceeding is denounced with unanimous
bitterness, as one of the most high-handed and inexcusable
acts of violence and outrage ever perpetrated;
and a general fear is felt that he can not
maintain himself in a state of peace, but will be impelled
to seek a war with England. The condition
of the national defenses is, therefore, the chief topic
of discussion, and upon this point all the leading
journals express serious apprehensions.
</p>

<p>
The difficulty between the master engineers and
their men continues unadjusted. Meetings are held
and public statements made by both sides, and the
dissension is much more likely to increase than to
diminish. The employers will not concede the right
of their men to fix the terms on which they shall be
hired, and the men will not yield what they consider
their just rights. The latter are taking steps to set
up workshops of their own by co-operation, and they
have already made some progress in the accomplishment
of their object.
</p>

<p>
The Reformers in the principal towns are taking
measures to influence the measure which Lord John
Russell intends to introduce into Parliament. Meetings
have been held at various places, and resolutions
adopted, specifying the provisions they desire,
and pledging support to the Cabinet, if its measures
shall conform to their principles. The friends of
the voluntary system of education are also active.
They proposed to send a deputation to wait upon
the Prime Minister, but he declined to meet them,
on the ground that it was not the intention of the
Ministry to introduce any bill on that subject during
the present session of Parliament, and that a deputation,
therefore, could do no good.&mdash;New discoveries
of gold in Australia have excited great interest
and attention in England. It is said that deposits
have been met with near Port Philip, much richer
than any known hitherto, either there or in California.&mdash;Later
advices from the Cape of Good Hope
represent colonial affairs in an unpromising light.
The expedition of the British troops against the Caffres
in their mountain fastnesses had proved to be
of little use, and to have been attended with serious
losses of British officers and men. The Caffres are
excellent marksmen, and prove to be very formidable
enemies. Col. Cathcart, who was one of Wellington's
aids at Waterloo, has been sent out as Governor
of the Cape.&mdash;The British cruisers on the African
coast recently sought to make a treaty for the
suppression of the slave trade, with the King of
Lagos who had, previously, forbidden their ascending
the river to the town where he lived. A force of
twenty-three boats, however, was fitted out with 260
officers and men, and attempted to ascend the river
by force. It was at once attacked, and it was only
with considerable difficulty and loss of life that the
men regained their ships. The king had always
received deputations from the squadron with every
demonstration of respect; and this fact shows the
extreme folly and injustice of such an armed expedition.
It has been indirectly sanctioned, however,
by the English government which has ordered
a strict blockade of that part of the African coast.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>France.</head>

<p>
Political affairs in France continue to present features
of extraordinary interest. The election, of
which we gave the general result in our last Number,
seems to have fortified Louis Napoleon, for the
present, on his Presidential throne, and he has gone
on without obstacle in the accomplishment of his
plans. The official returns show 7,439,219 votes in
his favor, and 640,737 against him. On New Year's
day the issue of the election was celebrated with
more than royal magnificence. Cannon were fired
at the Invalides at ten in the morning&mdash;seventy discharges
in all, ten for each million of votes recorded
in his favor; and at noon the President went to
Notre Dame, where <hi rend='italic'>Te Deum</hi> was performed amid
gorgeous and dazzling pomp. The scene was theatrical
and imposing. All Paris was covered with
<pb n='555'/><anchor id='Pg555'/>
troops, and the day was one of universal observance.
From Notre Dame Louis Napoleon returned to the
Tuileries, where the reception of the authorities took
place, and a banquet was given at which four hundred
persons sat down. The day before he had received
the formal announcement by the Consultative
Commission of the result of the election. M. Baroche,
the President of the Commission, in announcing
it, said that <q>France confided in his courage, his
elevated good-sense, and his love: no government
ever rested on a basis more extensive, or had an origin
more legitimate and worthy of the respect of nations.</q>
In reply Louis Napoleon said that France
had comprehended that he departed from legality only
to return to right: that she had absolved him, by justifying
an act which had no other object than to save
France, and perhaps Europe, from years of trouble
and anarchy: that he felt all the grandeur of his
new mission, and did not deceive himself as to its
difficulties. He hoped to secure the destinies of
France, by founding institutions which respond at
the same time to the democratic instincts of the nation,
and to the desire to have henceforth a strong
and respected government. He soon issued a decree
re-establishing the French eagle on the national colors
and on the Cross of the Legion of Honor, saying that
the Republic might now adopt without umbrage the
souvenirs of the Empire. On the 28th of December,
the Municipal Council of the Department of the
Seine was dissolved and re-constructed by a decree&mdash;thirteen
of the old members, most distinguished by
intellect, experience, and character, being superseded
because they would not make themselves subservient
to Louis Napoleon's views.&mdash;The Chamber
of Commerce at Havre was ordered to be dissolved,
and that portion of its journal which recorded
its protest against the usurpation was erased.&mdash;An
ordinance was issued, directing all political inscriptions,
and particularly the words <q>liberty, equality,
and fraternity,</q> to be erased, because they are <q>for
the people a perpetual excitement to revolt,</q> and for
the same reason all the trees of liberty were ordered
to be rooted up, in the departments as well as in
Paris.&mdash;The military organization of France was
remodeled also by decree, the nine military divisions
being re-arranged into twenty-one principal divisions,
with as many principal commands, all subordinate to
the Prince, Commander-in-chief.&mdash;By a decree dated
Jan. 9, the President expelled from the territory
of France, Algeria, and the Colonies sixty-six members
of the late Legislative Assembly, without trial,
preamble, or cause stated. Should any of them put
foot on French soil again without obtaining express
permission, they run the risk of deportation. Among
them is Victor Hugo. By another decree of the same
date, eighteen ex-representatives are condemned to
temporary banishment. Among them are all the generals
in prison at Ham, except Cavaignac, who is allowed
to go to Italy. At his own request, he has also
been placed upon the retired list. Thiers, Girardin,
and Sue are also among the proscribed. About twenty-five
hundred political prisoners have been ordered
to be deported to Cayenne, a place on the coast of
Africa, where the chances are that not one in ten of
them can live five years. These measures of high-handed
severity have created deep feeling and disapprobation,
to which, however, no one dares give expression,
either in print or in public conversation. The
press is subjected to a most rigorous censorship, and
spies lurk about every <foreign rend='italic'>caf</foreign> and public place to report
<q>disaffected</q> remarks.&mdash;A decree was issued on
the 11th of January, dissolving the National Guard,
and organizing a new corps under that name. The
officers are all to be appointed by the President, and
privates are to be admitted only upon examination
by Government officers.
</p>

<p>
On the 14th of January the new Constitution was
decreed. In the proclamation accompanying it, the
President says that, not having the vanity to substitute
a personal theory for the experience of centuries,
he sought in the past for examples that might best be
followed; and he said to himself, <q>Since France
makes progress during the last fifty years, in virtue
alone of the administrative, military, judicial, religious,
and financial organization of the Consulate and
the Empire, why should not we also adopt the political
institutions of that epoch?</q> After sketching
the condition of the various interests of France, for
the purpose of showing that it has been created by
the administration of the Emperor, Louis Napoleon
says that the principal bases of the Constitution of
the year VIII. have been adopted as the foundation
of that which he submits. The Constitution consists
of seven sections. The government is intrusted to
Louis Napoleon, actual President of the Republic,
for ten years: he governs by means of the Ministers,
the Council of State, the Senate, and the Legislative
body. He is responsible to the French people, to
whom he has the right always to appeal. He is
Chief of the State, commands the land and sea
forces, declares war, concludes treaties, and makes
rules and decrees for the execution of the laws. He
alone has the initiative of the laws, and the right to
pardon. He has the right to declare the state of
siege in one or several departments, referring to the
Senate with the least possible delay. The Ministers
depend solely on him, and each is responsible only
so far as the acts of the Government regard him.
All the officers of the Government, military and civil,
high and low, swear obedience to the Constitution
and fidelity to the President. Should the President
die before the expiration of his office, the Senate
convokes the nation to make a new election&mdash;the
President having the right, by secret will, to designate
the citizen whom he recommends. Until the
election of a new President, the President of the
Senate will govern.&mdash;The number of Senators is
fixed at 80 for the first year, and can not exceed 150.
The Senate is composed of Cardinals, Marshals, Admirals,
and of the citizens whom the President may
name. The Senators are not removable, and are for
life. Their services are gratuitous, but the President
may give them 30,000 francs annually, if he
sees fit. The officers of the Senate are to be elected
on nomination of the President of the Republic, and
are to hold for one year. The Senate is to be convoked
and prorogued by the President, and its sittings
are to be secret. It is the guardian of the fundamental
pact and of the public liberties: no law
can be published without being submitted to it. It
regulates the Constitution of the Colonies, and all
that has not been provided for by the Constitution,
and decides upon its interpretation&mdash;but its decisions
are invalid without the sanction of the President. It
maintains or annuls all acts complained of as unconstitutional
by the Government or by petition. It can
fix the bases of projects of laws of national interest&mdash;in
reports to the President; and can also propose
modifications of the Constitution; but all modifications
of the fundamental bases of the Constitution
must be submitted to the people.&mdash;In the Legislative
body there is to be one representative for every 35,000
electors&mdash;elected by universal suffrage, without <foreign rend='italic'>scrutin
de liste</foreign>. The deputies receive no salary, and hold
office for six years. The Legislative body discusses
and votes the projects of law and the imposts. Every
<pb n='556'/><anchor id='Pg556'/>
amendment adopted by the committee charged with
the examination of a project of law, shall be sent
without discussion to the Council of State, and if
not adopted by that body, it can not be submitted to
Legislative deliberation. The sittings are to be
public, but may be secret on the demand of five
members. Public reports of the proceedings shall
be confined to the journals and votes&mdash;and shall be
prepared under direction of the President of the
Legislative body. The officers are to be named by
the President of the Republic. Ministers can not
be members of the Legislature. No petition can be
addressed to the Legislative body. The President
of the Republic convokes, adjourns, prorogues, and
dissolves the Legislative body: in case of dissolution
he shall convoke a new one within six months.&mdash;The
number of Councilors of State is from 40 to
50. They are to be named by the President and are
removable by him. He presides over their meetings.
They are to draw up projects of law and regulations
of the public administration, and to resolve difficulties
that may arise, under the direction of the President.
Members are to be appointed from its number
by the President to maintain, in the name of the
Government, the discussion of the projects of law
before the Senate and the Legislative corps. The
salary of each Councilor is 25,000 francs. The
Ministers have ranks, right of sitting, and a deliberative
voice in the Council of State.&mdash;A High Court
of Justice judges without appeal all persons sent before
it accused of crimes, attempts or plots against
the President of the Republic, and against the internal
and external safety of the State. It can not be
convened except by decree from the President. Its
organization is to be regulated by the Senate.&mdash;Existing
provisions of law not opposed to the present
Constitution shall remain in force until legally abrogated.
The Executive shall name the Mayor. The
Constitution shall take effect from the day when the
great powers named by it shall be constituted.&mdash;Such
are the provisions of the new Constitution of France.
</p>

<p>
The Minister of the Interior has issued a circular
calling upon the Government officers to promote the
election of none but discreet and well-disposed men,
not orators or politicians, to the Legislative body, and
saying that if they will send to the Ministry the names
of proper persons, the influence of the Government
will be used to aid their election.&mdash;The disarming
of the National Guard has been effected without the
slightest difficulty.&mdash;On the 23d of January a decree
was published instituting a Ministry of Police
and one of State, and appointing M. Casabianca
Minister of State, M. Maupas Minister of General
Police, M. Abbatucci Minister of Justice, M. de Persigny
Minister of the Interior, M. Bineau Minister
of Finance; General de Saint-Arnaud, Minister of
War; Ducos, of Marine; Furgot, of Foreign Affairs,
and Fortone, of Public Instruction and Worship.&mdash;On
the 26th of January a decree was issued organizing
the Council of State, and appointing 34 Councillors,
40 Masters of Requests, and 31 Auditors. The
Council contains the names of most of the leaders in
the Assembly, who took sides with the President in
the debates of that body. On the 27th, the list of
Senators was announced. It contains the names of
many who were formerly Peers of France and members
of the Legislative Assembly.&mdash;On the 23d a
decree was issued declaring that the members of the
Orleans family, their husbands, wives, and descendants
can not possess any real or personal property in
France, and ordering the whole of their present possessions
to be sold within one year: and on the same
day another decree declared that all the property
possessed by Louis Philippe, and by him given to
his children, on the 7th of August, 1830, should be
confiscated and given to the state; and that of this
amount ten millions should be allowed to the mutual
assistance societies, authorized by law of July 15,
1850; ten millions to be employed in improving the
dwellings of workmen in the large manufacturing
towns; ten millions to be devoted to the establishment
of institutions for making loans on mortgage;
five millions to establish a retiring pension fund for
the poorest assistant clergy; and the remainder to
be distributed among the Legion of Honor and other
military functionaries.&mdash;The promulgation of these
decrees excited great dissatisfaction, and led to the
resignation of several members of the Councils. M.
Dupin, President of the late Assembly, resigned his
office as Procureur-general, in an indignant letter to
the President; and Montalembert also resigned his
office as member of the Consultative Commission.&mdash;The
first great ball at the Tuileries on the 24th
was very numerously and brilliantly attended.&mdash;A
decree has been issued abrogating that of 1848 which
abolished titles of nobility.&mdash;The President fills
column after column daily in the <hi rend='italic'>Moniteur</hi> with announcements
of promotions in the army.&mdash;Measures
of the utmost stringency have been adopted to prevent
public discussion in any form. The manufacturers
of printing presses, lithographic presses, copying
machines, &amp;c., have been forbidden to sell them
without sending the buyers' names to the Police department.&mdash;It
is rumored that two attempts have
been made to assassinate the President, but they are
not sufficiently authentic to be deemed reliable.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Austria And Hungary.</head>

<p>
The Austrian Emperor issued on New Year's day
three decrees, formally annulling the Constitution of
March 4, 1849, and promulgating certain fundamental
principles of the future organic institutions of the
Austrian Empire. The first decree declares that,
after thorough examination, the Constitution has
been found neither to agree with the situation of the
empire, nor to be capable of full execution. It is
therefore annulled, but the equality of all subjects
before the law, and the abolition of peasant service and
bondage are expressly confirmed. The second decree
annuls the specific political rights conferred
upon the various provinces. The third decree abolishes
open courts, and trials by jury, requires all town
elections to be confirmed by the Government, forbids
publication of governmental proceedings, and destroys
every vestige of the Parliamentary system.
These measures make the despotism of Austria much
more absolute and severe than it was before 1848.&mdash;Proposals
are in active preparation for a new
Austrian loan. In consequence of this, Baron Krauss,
the Minister of Finance, resigned, and is succeeded
by M. von Baumgartner.&mdash;The members of the
London Missionary and Bible Society, who have for
many years resided at Pesth and other Hungarian
towns, have been ordered out of the Austrian states.&mdash;In
Prussia strenuous efforts are made by the
reactionary party to secure the abolition of the Chambers
and the restoration of absolutism.&mdash;It is said
that the Austrian Government has received from Earl
Granville, in reply to its demand for the suppression
of revolutionary intrigues carried on in England
against the Continental Governments, assurances that
every thing should be done to meet its wishes so far
as they were not incompatible with the laws and
customs of England.&mdash;The Austrian Minister of
the Interior has directed a committee to make a draft
of new laws for Hungary on the basis of the decrees
of the 1st of January.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='557'/><anchor id='Pg557'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Editor's Table.</head>

<p>
The seventh enumeration of the inhabitants of the
United States, taken on the 1st of June, 1850,
exhibits results which every citizen of the country may
contemplate with gratification and pride. The Report
of the Superintendent of the Census-office to the
Secretary of the Interior, laid before Congress, in
December, 1851, gives a full abstract of the returns,
from which we select the most interesting portions;
adding other statements showing the progress of this
country in population and resources.
</p>

<p>
Since the census of 1840, there have been added
to the territory of the Republic, by annexation, conquest,
and purchase, 824,969 square miles; and our
title to a region covering 341,463 square miles, which
before properly belonged to us, but was claimed and
partially occupied by a foreign power, has been established
by negotiation, and has been brought within
our acknowledged boundaries. By these means the
area of the United States has been extended during
the past ten years, from 2,055,163 to 3,221,595 square
miles, without including the great lakes which lie
upon our northern border, or the bays which indent
our Atlantic and Pacific shores; all which territory
has come within the scope of the Seventh Census.
</p>

<p>
In endeavoring to ascertain the progress of our
population since 1840, it will be proper to deduct
from the aggregate number of inhabitants shown by
the present census, the population of Texas in 1840,
and the number embraced within the limits of California
and the new territories, at the time of their
acquisition. From the best information which has
been obtained at the Census-office, it is believed that
Texas contained, in 1840, 75,000 inhabitants; and
that when California, New Mexico, and Oregon came
into our possession, in 1846, they had a total population
of 97,000. It thus appears that we have received
by accessions of territory, since 1840, an addition
of 172,000 to the number of our people. The
increase which has taken place in those extended
regions since they came under the authority of our
Government, should obviously be reckoned as a part
of the development and progress of our population,
nor is it necessary to complicate the comparison by
taking into account the probable natural increase of
this acquired population, because we have not the
means of determining its rate of advancement, nor
the law which governed its progress, while yet beyond
the influence of our political system.
</p>

<p>
The total number of inhabitants in the United
States, according to the returns of the census, was
on the 1st of June, 1850, 23,258,760. The absolute increase
from the 1st of June, 1840, has been 6,189,307,
and the actual increase per cent. is slightly over 36
per cent. But it has been shown that the probable
amount of population acquired by additions of territory
should be deducted in making a comparison between
the results of the present and the last census.
These reductions diminish the total population of the
country, as a basis of comparison, and also the increase.
The relative increase, after this allowance,
is found to be 35.17 per cent.
</p>

<p>
The aggregate number of whites in 1850 was
19,631,799, exhibiting a gain upon the number of the
same class in 1840, of 5,436,004, and a relative increase
of 38.20 per cent. But, excluding the 153,000
free population supposed to have been acquired by the
addition of territory since 1840, the gain is 5,283,004,
and the increase per cent. is 37.14.
</p>

<p>
The number of slaves, by the present census, is
3,198,324, which shows an increase of 711,111, equal
to 28.58 per cent. If we deduct 19,000 for the probable
slave population of Texas in 1840, the result of
the comparison will be slightly different. The absolute
increase will be 692,111, and the rate per
cent. 27.83.
</p>

<p>
The number of free colored persons in 1850 was
428,637; in 1840, 386,345. The increase of this
class has been 42,292 or 10.95 per cent.
</p>

<p>
From 1830 to 1840, the increase of the whole population
was at the rate of 32.67 per cent. At the
same rate of advancement, the absolute gain for the
ten years last past, would have been 5,578,333, or
426,515 less than it has been, without including the
increase consequent upon additions of territory.
</p>

<p>
The aggregate increase of population, from all
sources, shows a relative advance greater than that
of any other decennial term, except that from the
second to the third census, during which time the
country received an accession of inhabitants by the
purchase of Louisiana, considerably greater than one
per cent. of the whole number.
</p>

<p>
The decennial increase of the most favored portions
of Europe is less than one and a half per cent.
per annum, while with the United States it is at the
rate of three and a half per cent. According to our
past progress, viewed in connection with that of
European nations, the population of the United States
in forty years will exceed that of England, France,
Spain, Portugal, Sweden, and Switzerland combined.
</p>

<p>
In 1845, Mr. William Darby, the Geographer, who
has paid much attention to the subject of population,
and the progress of the country; having found that
the increase of population in the United States for a
series of years, had exceeded three per cent. per
annum, adopted that ratio as a basis for calculation
for future increase. He estimated the population of
1850 at 23,138,004, which it will be observed is considerably
exceeded by the actual result. The following
are Mr. Darby's calculations of the probable
population of the Union for each five years up to
1885:
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2cm} p{2cm} p{2cm} p{2cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(10) lw(20) lw(10) lw(20)'">
<row><cell>1850</cell><cell>23,138,004</cell>
     <cell>1870</cell><cell>40,617,708</cell></row>
<row><cell>1855</cell><cell>26,823,385</cell>
     <cell>1875</cell><cell>47,087,052</cell></row>
<row><cell>1860</cell><cell>31,095,535</cell>
     <cell>1880</cell><cell>54,686,795</cell></row>
<row><cell>1865</cell><cell>35,035,231</cell>
     <cell>1885</cell><cell>63,291,353</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
If the ratio of increase be taken at three per cent.
per annum, the population duplicates, in about twenty-four
years. Therefore, if no serious disturbing
influence should interfere with the natural order of
things, the aggregate population of the United States
at the close of this century must be over one hundred
millions.
</p>

<p>
The relative progress of the white and colored
population in past years, is shown by the following
tabular statement, giving the increase per cent. of
each class of inhabitants in the United States for
sixty years.
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{1.4cm} p{0.9cm} p{0.9cm} p{0.9cm} p{0.9cm} p{0.9cm}
                            p{0.9cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(8) lw(7) lw(7) lw(7) lw(7) lw(7) lw(7)'">
<row><cell>Classes.</cell><cell>1790 to 1800</cell><cell>1800 to 1810</cell>
     <cell>1810 to 1820</cell><cell>1820 to 1830</cell><cell>1830 to 1840</cell>
     <cell>1840 to 1850</cell></row>
<row><cell>Whites</cell><cell>35.7</cell><cell>36.2</cell><cell>34.19</cell>
     <cell>33.95</cell><cell>34.7 </cell><cell>38.28</cell></row>
<row><cell>Free col.</cell><cell>88.2</cell><cell>72.2</cell><cell>25.25</cell>
     <cell>36.85</cell><cell>20.9 </cell><cell>10.9</cell></row>
<row><cell>Slaves</cell><cell>27.9</cell><cell>33.4</cell><cell>29.1</cell>
     <cell>30.61</cell><cell>23.8</cell><cell>28.58</cell></row>
<row><cell>Total col.</cell><cell>32.2</cell><cell>37.6</cell><cell>28.58</cell>
     <cell>31.44</cell><cell>23.4</cell><cell>26.22</cell></row>
<row><cell>Total pop.</cell><cell>35.01</cell><cell>36.45</cell><cell>33.12</cell>
     <cell>33.48</cell><cell>32.6</cell><cell>36.25</cell></row>
</table>

<pb n='558'/><anchor id='Pg558'/>

<p>
The census had been taken previously to 1830 on
the 1st of August; the enumeration began that year
on the 1st of June, two months earlier, so that the
interval between the fourth and fifth censuses was
two months less than ten years, which time allowed
for would bring the total increase up to the rate of
34.36 per cent.
</p>

<p>
The table given below shows the increase for the
sixty years, 1790 to 1850, without reference to intervening
periods:
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{1cm} p{1.2cm} p{1.2cm} p{1.3cm} p{1.3cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(12) rw(10) rw(10) rw(10) rw(9)'">
<row><cell>Number.</cell><cell>1790.</cell><cell>1850.</cell>
     <cell>Absolute Increase.</cell><cell>Incr. per cent.</cell></row>
<row><cell>Whites</cell><cell>3,172,364</cell><cell>19,631,799</cell>
     <cell>16,459,335</cell><cell>527.97</cell></row>
<row><cell>Free col.</cell><cell>59,466</cell><cell>428,637</cell><cell>369,171</cell>
     <cell>617.44</cell></row>
<row><cell>Slaves</cell><cell>697,897</cell><cell>3,198,324</cell><cell>2,500,427</cell>
     <cell>350.13</cell></row>
<row><cell>Total free col. and slaves</cell><cell>757,363</cell><cell>3,626,961</cell>
     <cell>2,869,598</cell><cell>377.00</cell></row>
<row><cell>Total pop.</cell><cell>3,929,827</cell><cell>23,258,760</cell>
     <cell>19,328,883</cell><cell>491.52</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
Sixty years since, the proportion between the
whites and blacks, bond and free, was 4.2 to one.
In 1850, it was 5.26 to 1, and the ratio in favor of
the former race is increasing. Had the blacks increased
as fast as the whites during these sixty years,
their number, on the first of June, would have been
4,657,239; so that, in comparison with the whites,
they have lost, in this period, 1,035,340.
</p>

<p>
This disparity is much more than accounted for
by European emigration to the United States. Dr.
Chickering, in an essay upon emigration, published
at Boston in 1848&mdash;distinguished for great elaborateness
of research&mdash;estimates the gain of the white population,
from this source, at 3,922,152. No reliable
record was kept of the number of immigrants into the
United States until 1820, when, by the law of March,
1819, the collectors were required to make quarterly
returns of foreign passengers arriving in their districts.
For the first ten years, the returns under the law afford
materials for only an approximation to a true
state of the facts involved in this inquiry.
</p>

<p>
Dr. Chickering assumes, as a result of his investigations,
that of the 6,431,088 inhabitants of the United
States in 1820, 1,430,906 were foreigners, arriving
subsequent to 1790, or the descendants of such. According
to Dr. Seybert, an earlier writer upon statistics,
the number of foreign passengers, from 1790
to 1810, was, as nearly as could be ascertained,
120,000; and from the estimates of Dr. Seybert, and
other evidence, Hon. George Tucker, author of a
valuable work on the census of 1840, supposes the
number, from 1810 to 1820, to have been 114,000.
These estimates make, for the thirty years preceding
1820, 234,000.
</p>

<p>
If we reckon the increase of these emigrants at
the average rate of the whole body of white population
during these three decades, they and their descendants
in 1820, would amount to about 360,000.
From 1820 to 1830 there arrived, according to the
returns of the Custom-houses, 135,986 foreign passengers,
and from 1830 to 1840, 579,370, making for
the twenty years 715,356. During this period a
large number of emigrants from Great Britain and
Ireland, came into the United States through Canada.
These were estimated at 67,903 from 1820 to
1830, and from 1830 to 1840, at 199,130. From 1840
to 1850 the arrivals of foreign passengers amounted
to 1,542,850, equal to an annual average of 154,285.
</p>

<p>
From the above returns and estimates the following
statement has been made up, to show the accessions
to our population from immigration, from 1790
to 1850&mdash;a period of sixty years:
</p>

<lg>
<l>Number of foreigners arriving from 1790 to 1810: 120,000</l>
<l>Natural increase, reckoned in periods of ten years: 47,560</l>
<l>Number of foreigners arriving from 1810 to 1820: 114,000</l>
<l>Increase of the above to 1820: 19,000</l>
<l>Increase from 1810 to 1820 of those arriving previous to 1810: 58,450</l>
<l>Total number of immigrants and descendants of immigrants in 1820: 359,010</l>
<l>Number of immigrants from 1820 to 1830: 203,979</l>
<l>Increase of the above: 35,728</l>
<l>Increase from 1820 to 1830 of immigrants and descendants of immigrants in the
country in 1820: 134,130</l>
<l>Total number of immigrants and descendants of immigrants in the United
States in 1830: 732,847</l>
<l>Number of immigrants arriving from 1830 to 1840: 778,500</l>
<l>Increase of the: 135,150</l>
<l>Increase from 1830 to 1840 of immigrants and descendants of immigrants in
the United States in 1830: 254,445</l>
<l>Total number of immigrants and descendants of immigrants in the United
States in 1840: 1,900,942</l>
<l>Number of immigrants arriving from 1840 to 1850<note place='foot'>As the
heaviest portion of this great influx of immigration
took place in the latter half of the decade, it will
probably be fair to estimate the natural increase during
the term, at twelve per cent., being about one-third of
that of the white population at its commencement.</note>: 1,542,850</l>
<l>Increase of the above at twelve per cent: 185,142</l>
<l>Increase from 1840 to 1850 of immigrants and descendants of immigrants in the
United States in 1840: 722,000</l>
<l>Total number of immigrants in the United States since 1790, and their
descendants in 1850: 4,350,934</l>
</lg>

<p>
The following, we think, may be considered an
approximate estimate of the population of the United
States, in 1850, classed according to their descent
from the European colonists, previous to the American
Revolution, also from immigration since 1790,
from the people who inhabited the territories acquired
by the United States (Louisiana, Texas, &amp;c.),
and from Africans:
</p>

<lg>
<l>Descendants of the European colonists, previous to 1776: 14,280,885</l>
<l>Ditto of people of Louisiana, Texas, and other acquired
territories: 1,000,000</l>
<l>Immigrants since 1790, and their descendants: 4,350,934</l>
<l>Descendants of Africans: 3,626,961</l>
<l>Total population: 23,258,760</l>
</lg>

<p>
It will be seen from the above, that the total number
of immigrants arriving in the United States from
1790 to 1850, a period of 60 years, is estimated to
have been 2,759,329&mdash;or an average of 45,988 annually
for the whole period. It will be observed also
that the estimated increase of these emigrants has
been 1,590,405, making the total number added to
the population of the United States since 1790, by
foreign immigrants and their descendants, 4,350,934.
Of these immigrants and their descendants, those
from Ireland bear the largest proportion, probably
more than one half of the whole, or say two and a
half millions. Next to these the Germans are the
most numerous. From the time that the first German
settlers came to this country, in 1682, under the
auspices of William Penn, there has been a steady
influx of immigrants from Germany, principally to the
Middle States; and of late years to the West.
</p>

<p>
The density of population is a branch of the subject
which naturally attracts the attention of the inquirer.
Taking the thirty-one States together, their
area is 1,485,870 square miles, and the average number
of their inhabitants is 15.48 to the square mile.
The total area of the United States is 3,280,000
square miles, and the average density of population
is 7.22 to the square mile.
</p>

<pb n='559'/><anchor id='Pg559'/>

<p>
From the location, climate, and productions, and
the habits and pursuits of their inhabitants, the States
of the Union may be properly arranged into the following
groups:
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(25) rw(10) rw(10) rw(10)'">
<row><cell>Divisions.</cell><cell>Area in sq. miles.</cell>
     <cell>Population.</cell><cell>Inhab. to sq. m.</cell></row>
<row><cell>New Engl'd States (6)</cell><cell>63,226</cell><cell>2,727,597</cell>
     <cell>43.07</cell></row>
<row><cell>Middle States, including Maryland, Delaware and Ohio (6)</cell>
     <cell>151,760</cell><cell>8,653,713</cell><cell>57.02</cell></row>
<row><cell>Coast Planting States, including South Carolina, Georgia, Florida,
Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana (6)</cell><cell>286,077</cell><cell>3,537,089</cell>
     <cell>12.36</cell></row>
<row><cell>Central Slave States: Virginia, North Carolina, Tennessee,
Kentucky, Missouri, Arkansas(6)</cell><cell>308,210</cell><cell>5,168,000</cell>
     <cell>16.75</cell></row>
<row><cell>Northwestern States: Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin and Iowa (5)</cell>
     <cell>250,000</cell><cell>2,735,000</cell><cell>10.92</cell></row>
<row><cell>Texas</cell><cell>237,321</cell><cell>212,000</cell><cell>.89</cell></row>
<row><cell>California</cell><cell>188,982</cell><cell>165,000</cell><cell>.87</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
Table of the area, and the number of inhabitants
to the square mile, in each State and Territory in
the Union.
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(25) rw(10) rw(10) rw(10)'">
<row><cell>Free States.</cell><cell>Area in sq. miles</cell>
     <cell>Population in 1850.</cell><cell>Inhab. to sq. m.</cell></row>
<row><cell>Maine</cell><cell>30,000</cell><cell>583,188</cell><cell>19.44</cell></row>
<row><cell>New Hampshire</cell><cell>9,280</cell><cell>317,964</cell>
     <cell>34.26</cell></row>
<row><cell>Vermont</cell><cell>10,212</cell><cell>314,120</cell><cell>30.07</cell></row>
<row><cell>Massachusetts</cell><cell>7,800</cell><cell>994,499</cell>
     <cell>126.11</cell></row>
<row><cell>Rhode Island</cell><cell>1,306</cell><cell>147,544</cell>
     <cell>108.05</cell></row>
<row><cell>Connecticut</cell><cell>4,674</cell><cell>370,791</cell>
     <cell>79.83</cell></row>
<row><cell>New York</cell><cell>46,000</cell><cell>3,097,394</cell>
     <cell>67.66</cell></row>
<row><cell>New Jersey</cell><cell>6,320</cell><cell>489,333</cell>
     <cell>60.04</cell></row>
<row><cell>Pennsylvania</cell><cell>46,000</cell><cell>2,311,786</cell>
     <cell>50.25</cell></row>
<row><cell>Ohio</cell><cell>39,964</cell><cell>1,980,408</cell><cell>49.55</cell></row>
<row><cell>Indiana</cell><cell>33,809</cell><cell>988,416</cell><cell>29.23</cell></row>
<row><cell>Illinois</cell><cell>55,405</cell><cell>851,470</cell><cell>15.37</cell></row>
<row><cell>Iowa</cell><cell>50,914</cell><cell>192,214</cell><cell>3.77</cell></row>
<row><cell>Wisconsin</cell><cell>53,924</cell><cell>305,191</cell><cell>5.45</cell></row>
<row><cell>Michigan</cell><cell>56,243</cell><cell>397,654</cell><cell>7.07</cell></row>
<row><cell>California</cell><cell>188,982</cell><cell>165,000</cell><cell>.87</cell></row>
<row><cell>Minnesota Terr.</cell><cell>83,000</cell><cell>6,077</cell>
     <cell>.07</cell></row>
<row><cell>Oregon ditto</cell><cell>341,463</cell><cell>13,293</cell>
     <cell>.04</cell></row>
<row><cell>Mew Mexico ditto</cell><cell>219,774</cell><cell>61,547</cell>
     <cell>.28</cell></row>
<row><cell>Utah ditto</cell><cell>187,923</cell><cell>11,380</cell><cell>.06</cell></row>
<row><cell>Total</cell><cell>1,474,993</cell><cell>13,419,190</cell><cell></cell></row>
</table>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(25) rw(10) rw(10) rw(10)'">
<row><cell>Slaveholding States.</cell><cell></cell><cell></cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>Delaware</cell><cell>2,120</cell><cell>91,535</cell><cell>43.64</cell></row>
<row><cell>Maryland</cell><cell>9,356</cell><cell>583,035</cell><cell>62.31</cell></row>
<row><cell>Dis. of Columbia</cell><cell>60</cell><cell>51,687</cell>
     <cell>861.45</cell></row>
<row><cell>Virginia</cell><cell>61,352</cell><cell>1,421,661</cell>
     <cell>23.17</cell></row>
<row><cell>North Carolina</cell><cell>45,000</cell><cell>868,903</cell>
     <cell>19.30</cell></row>
<row><cell>South Carolina</cell><cell>24,500</cell><cell>668,507</cell>
     <cell>27.28</cell></row>
<row><cell>Georgia</cell><cell>58,000</cell><cell>905,999</cell><cell>15.68</cell></row>
<row><cell>Florida</cell><cell>59,268</cell><cell>87,401</cell><cell>1.47</cell></row>
<row><cell>Alabama</cell><cell>50,723</cell><cell>771,671</cell><cell>15.21 </cell></row>
<row><cell>Mississippi</cell><cell>47,126</cell><cell>606,555</cell>
     <cell>12.86</cell></row>
<row><cell>Louisiana</cell><cell>46,431</cell><cell>511,974</cell><cell>11.02</cell></row>
<row><cell>Texas</cell><cell>237,321</cell><cell>212,592</cell><cell>.89</cell></row>
<row><cell>Arkansas</cell><cell>52,198</cell><cell>209,639</cell><cell>4.01</cell></row>
<row><cell>Tennessee</cell><cell>45,600</cell><cell>1,002,625</cell>
     <cell>21.98</cell></row>
<row><cell>Kentucky</cell><cell>37,680</cell><cell>982,405</cell><cell>26.07</cell></row>
<row><cell>Missouri</cell><cell>67,380</cell><cell>682,043</cell><cell>10.12</cell></row>
<row><cell>Total</cell><cell>844,115</cell><cell>9,638,223</cell><cell></cell></row>
</table>

<p>
It will be observed that a large proportion of the
area of the Free States and Territories is comprised
in the unsettled country west of the Mississippi.
The following Territories, inhabited by Indians, also
lie west of the Mississippi.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Nebraska Territory: 136,700 square miles.</l>
<l>Indian Territory: 187,171 square miles.</l>
<l>Northwest Territory: 587,564 square miles.</l>
</lg>

<p>
The following is a comparative table of the population
of each State and Territory in 1850, and 1840:
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(25) rw(10) rw(10)'">
<row><cell>Free States.</cell><cell>Pop. 1850.</cell><cell>Pop. 1840.</cell></row>
<row><cell>Maine</cell><cell>583,188</cell><cell>501,793</cell></row>
<row><cell>New Hampshire</cell><cell>317,964</cell><cell>284,574</cell></row>
<row><cell>Vermont</cell><cell>313,611</cell><cell>291,948</cell></row>
<row><cell>Massachusetts</cell><cell>994,499</cell><cell>737,699</cell></row>
<row><cell>Rhode Island</cell><cell>147,544</cell><cell>108,830</cell></row>
<row><cell>Connecticut</cell><cell>370,791</cell><cell>309,978</cell></row>
<row><cell>New York</cell><cell>3,097,394</cell><cell>2,428,921</cell></row>
<row><cell>New Jersey</cell><cell>489,555</cell><cell>373,306</cell></row>
<row><cell>Pennsylvania</cell><cell>2,311,786</cell><cell>1,724,033</cell></row>
<row><cell>Ohio</cell><cell>1,980,408</cell><cell>1,519,467</cell></row>
<row><cell>Indiana</cell><cell>988,416</cell><cell>685,866</cell></row>
<row><cell>Illinois</cell><cell>851,470</cell><cell>476,183</cell></row>
<row><cell>Iowa</cell><cell>192,214</cell><cell>43,112</cell></row>
<row><cell>Wisconsin</cell><cell>305,191</cell><cell>30,945</cell></row>
<row><cell>Michigan</cell><cell>397,654</cell><cell>212,367</cell></row>
<row><cell>California</cell><cell>165,000</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>Minnesota Territory</cell><cell>6,077</cell><cell></cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>Oregon Territory</cell><cell>13,293</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>New Mexico Territory</cell><cell>61,505</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>Utah Territory</cell><cell>11,380</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>Total</cell><cell>13,419,190</cell><cell>9,978,922</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
Increase of population, 3,440,268, or exclusive of
California and Territories, 3,183,013&mdash;equal to 31.8
per cent.
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(25) rw(15) rw(15)'">
<row><cell>Slaveholding States.</cell><cell>Pop. 1850.</cell>
     <cell>Pop. 1840</cell></row>
<row><cell>Delaware</cell><cell>91,536</cell><cell>78,085</cell></row>
<row><cell>Maryland</cell><cell>583,035</cell><cell>470,019</cell></row>
<row><cell>District of Columbia<note place='foot'>Alexandria &amp;c. ceded
back to Virginia since 1840.</note></cell><cell>51,687</cell><cell>43,712</cell></row>
<row><cell>Virginia</cell><cell>1,421,661</cell><cell>1,239,797</cell></row>
<row><cell>North Carolina</cell><cell>868,903</cell><cell>753,419</cell></row>
<row><cell>South Carolina</cell><cell>668,507</cell><cell>594,398</cell></row>
<row><cell>Georgia</cell><cell>905,990</cell><cell>691,392</cell></row>
<row><cell>Florida</cell><cell>87,401</cell><cell>54,477</cell></row>
<row><cell>Alabama</cell><cell>771,671</cell><cell>590,756</cell></row>
<row><cell>Mississippi</cell><cell>606,555</cell><cell>375,651</cell></row>
<row><cell>Louisiana</cell><cell>511,974</cell><cell>352,411</cell></row>
<row><cell>Texas</cell><cell>212,592</cell><cell>(est. 75,000)</cell></row>
<row><cell>Arkansas</cell><cell>209,639</cell><cell>97,574</cell></row>
<row><cell>Tennessee</cell><cell>1,002,625</cell><cell>829,210</cell></row>
<row><cell>Kentucky</cell><cell>982,405</cell><cell>779,828</cell></row>
<row><cell>Missouri</cell><cell>682,043</cell><cell>383,702</cell></row>
<row><cell>Total</cell><cell>9,658,224</cell><cell>7,409,431</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
Total increase of population 2,248,793, equal to
30.3 per cent.
</p>

<p>
Comparative population of the United States, from
1790 to 1850.
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{1cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(10) rw(8) rw(8) rw(8) rw(8)'">
<row><cell>Census of</cell><cell>Total.</cell><cell>Whites.</cell><cell>Free col.</cell>
     <cell>Slaves.</cell></row>
<row><cell>1790</cell><cell>3,929,827</cell><cell>3,172,464</cell><cell>59,446</cell>
     <cell>687,897</cell></row>
<row><cell>1800</cell><cell>5,345,925</cell><cell>4,304,489</cell><cell>108,395</cell>
     <cell>893,041</cell></row>
<row><cell>1810</cell><cell>7,239,814</cell><cell>5,862,004</cell><cell>186,446</cell>
     <cell>1,191,364</cell></row>
<row><cell>1820</cell><cell>9,654,596</cell><cell>7,872,711</cell><cell>238,197</cell>
     <cell>1,543,688</cell></row>
<row><cell>1830</cell><cell>12,866,020</cell><cell>10,537,378</cell><cell>319,599</cell>
     <cell>2,009,043</cell></row>
<row><cell>1840</cell><cell>17,063,355</cell><cell>14,189,705</cell><cell>386,295</cell>
     <cell>2,487,355</cell></row>
<row><cell>1850</cell><cell>23,258,760</cell><cell>19,631,799</cell><cell>428,637</cell>
     <cell>3,198,324</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
Table showing the number of the different classes
of population in each State and Territory.
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(15) rw(10) rw(10) rw(10)'">
<row><cell>Free States.</cell><cell>Whites.</cell><cell>Free col.</cell>
     <cell>Slaves.</cell></row>
<row><cell>Maine</cell><cell>581,863</cell><cell>1,325</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>New Hampshire</cell><cell>317,385</cell><cell>475</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>Vermont</cell><cell>313,411</cell><cell>709</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>Massachusetts</cell><cell>985,704</cell><cell>8,795</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>Rhode Island</cell><cell>144,000</cell><cell>3,544</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>Connecticut</cell><cell>363,305</cell><cell>7,486</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>New York</cell><cell>3,049,457</cell><cell>47,937</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>New Jersey</cell><cell>466,240</cell><cell>23,093</cell><cell>222</cell></row>
<row><cell>Pennsylvania</cell><cell>2,258,463</cell><cell>53,323</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>Ohio</cell><cell>1,956,108</cell><cell>24,300</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>Indiana</cell><cell>977,628</cell><cell>10,788</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>Illinois</cell><cell>846,104</cell><cell>5,366</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>Iowa</cell><cell>191,879</cell><cell>335</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>Wisconsin</cell><cell>304,965</cell><cell>626</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>Michigan</cell><cell>395,097</cell><cell>2,537</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>California</cell><cell>163,200</cell><cell>1,800</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>Minnesota Territory</cell><cell>6,038</cell><cell>39</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>Oregon Territory</cell><cell>13,089</cell><cell>206</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>New Mexico Territory</cell><cell>61,530</cell><cell>17</cell>
          <cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>Utah Territory</cell><cell>11,330</cell><cell>24</cell><cell>26</cell></row>
<row><cell>Total</cell><cell>13,406,394</cell><cell>192,745</cell><cell>248</cell></row>
</table>

<pb n='560'/><anchor id='Pg560'/>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(15) rw(10) rw(10) rw(10)'">
<row><cell>Slaveholding States</cell><cell>Whites.</cell><cell>Free col.</cell>
     <cell>Slaves.</cell></row>
<row><cell>Delaware</cell><cell>71,289</cell><cell>19,957</cell><cell>2,289</cell></row>
<row><cell>Maryland</cell><cell>418,590</cell><cell>74,077</cell><cell>90,368</cell></row>
<row><cell>District of Columbia</cell><cell>38,027</cell><cell>9,973</cell>
     <cell>3,687</cell></row>
<row><cell>Virginia</cell><cell>895,304</cell><cell>53,829</cell>
     <cell>472,528</cell></row>
<row><cell>North Carolina</cell><cell>533,295</cell><cell>27,196</cell>
     <cell>283,412</cell></row>
<row><cell>South Carolina</cell><cell>274,623</cell><cell>8,900</cell>
     <cell>384,984</cell></row>
<row><cell>Georgia</cell><cell>521,438</cell><cell>2,880</cell><cell>381,681</cell></row>
<row><cell>Florida</cell><cell>47,167</cell><cell>925</cell><cell>39,309</cell></row>
<row><cell>Alabama</cell><cell>426,507</cell><cell>2,272</cell><cell>342,892</cell></row>
<row><cell>Mississippi</cell><cell>205,758</cell><cell>899</cell>
     <cell>309,898</cell></row>
<row><cell>Louisiana</cell><cell>255,416</cell><cell>17,537</cell>
     <cell>239,021</cell></row>
<row><cell>Texas</cell><cell>154,100</cell><cell>331</cell><cell>58,161</cell></row>
<row><cell>Arkansas</cell><cell>162,068</cell><cell>589</cell><cell>46,982</cell></row>
<row><cell>Tennessee</cell><cell>756,893</cell><cell>6,271</cell>
     <cell>239,461</cell></row>
<row><cell>Kentucky</cell><cell>761,688</cell><cell>9,736</cell><cell>210,981</cell></row>
<row><cell>Missouri</cell><cell>592,077</cell><cell>2,544</cell><cell>87,422</cell></row>
<row><cell>Total</cell><cell>6,224,240</cell><cell>235,916</cell>
     <cell>3,198,076</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
The following table shows the population west of
the Mississippi River.
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{1.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(20) rw(10)'">
<row><cell>Western Louisiana</cell><cell>207,787</cell></row>
<row><cell>Texas</cell><cell>212,592</cell></row>
<row><cell>Arkansas</cell><cell>209,639</cell></row>
<row><cell>Missouri</cell><cell>682,043</cell></row>
<row><cell>Iowa</cell><cell>192,214</cell></row>
<row><cell>Minnesota Territory</cell><cell>6,077</cell></row>
<row><cell>New Mexico Territory</cell><cell>61,505</cell></row>
<row><cell>Utah Territory</cell><cell>11,293</cell></row>
<row><cell>Oregon Territory</cell><cell>13,293</cell></row>
<row><cell>California</cell><cell>165,000</cell></row>
<row><cell>Total</cell><cell>1,761,530</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
The population of the Valley of the Mississippi,
comprising Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, Wisconsin,
Minnesota, Missouri, Arkansas, Tennessee, Kentucky,
Mississippi, Alabama, and Louisiana, is 9,090,688,
of whom the free population is 7,614,031, and
1,476,657 are slaves.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>The Ratio of Representation</hi>, as determined
by the recent census, and a late Act of Congress,
will be about 93,716, and the relative representation
of the States in Congress for the next ten years, will
be as follows:
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{1.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(15) rw(10)'">
<row><cell>New York</cell><cell>33</cell></row>
<row><cell>Pennsylvania</cell><cell>25</cell></row>
<row><cell>Ohio</cell><cell>21</cell></row>
<row><cell>Virginia</cell><cell>13</cell></row>
<row><cell>Massachusetts</cell><cell>11</cell></row>
<row><cell>Indiana</cell><cell>11</cell></row>
<row><cell>Tennessee</cell><cell>10</cell></row>
<row><cell>Kentucky</cell><cell>10</cell></row>
<row><cell>Illinois</cell><cell>9</cell></row>
<row><cell>North Carolina</cell><cell>8</cell></row>
<row><cell>Georgia</cell><cell>8</cell></row>
<row><cell>Alabama</cell><cell>7</cell></row>
<row><cell>Missouri</cell><cell>7</cell></row>
<row><cell>Maine</cell><cell>6</cell></row>
<row><cell>Maryland</cell><cell>6</cell></row>
<row><cell>New Jersey</cell><cell>5</cell></row>
<row><cell>South Carolina</cell><cell>5</cell></row>
<row><cell>Mississippi</cell><cell>5</cell></row>
<row><cell>Connecticut</cell><cell>4</cell></row>
<row><cell>Michigan</cell><cell>4</cell></row>
<row><cell>Louisiana</cell><cell>4</cell></row>
<row><cell>Vermont</cell><cell>3</cell></row>
<row><cell>New Hampshire</cell><cell>3</cell></row>
<row><cell>Wisconsin</cell><cell>3</cell></row>
<row><cell>Rhode Island</cell><cell>2</cell></row>
<row><cell>Iowa</cell><cell>2</cell></row>
<row><cell>Arkansas</cell><cell>2</cell></row>
<row><cell>Texas</cell><cell>2</cell></row>
<row><cell>California</cell><cell>2</cell></row>
<row><cell>Florida</cell><cell>1</cell></row>
<row><cell>Delaware</cell><cell>1</cell></row>
<row><cell>Total</cell><cell>233</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Agriculture.</hi>&mdash;The following is a summary of
the returns of the Census for a portion of the statistics
obtained respecting agriculture:
</p>

<lg>
<l>Number of acres of land improved: 112,042,000</l>
<l>Value of farming implements and machinery: $151,820,273</l>
<l>Value of live stock: $552,705,238</l>
<l>Bushels of wheat raised, 1849: 104,799,230</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 8'>In 1839: 84,823,272</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Increased production: 19,975,958</l>
<l>Bushels of Indian corn raised, 1849: 591,586,053</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 8'>In  1839: 377,531,875</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Increased production: 214,054,178</l>
<l>Pounds of Tobacco raised, 1849: 199,522,494</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 7'>In 1839:  219,163,319</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Decreased production:  19,640,825</l>
<l>Bales of cotton of 400 lb. each&mdash;1849: 2,472,214</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 6'>In 1839: 1,976,199</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Increased production: 495,016</l>
<l>Pounds of sheep's wool raised, 1849: 52,422,797</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 7'>In  1839: 35,802,114</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Increased production: 16,620,683</l>
<l>Tons of hay raised, 1849: 13,605,384</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 6'>In 1839: 10,248,108</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Increased production:  3,357,276</l>
<l>Pounds of butter made, 1849: 312,202,286</l>
<l>Pounds of cheese made, 1849: 103,184,585</l>
<l>Pounds of maple sugar, 1849: 32,759,263</l>
<l>Cane sugar&mdash;hhds. of 1000 lbs:  318,644</l>
<l>Value of household manufactures, 1849:  $27,525,545</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>In  1839: 29,023,380</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Decrease: 1,497,735</l>
</lg>

<p>
Manufactures.
</p>

<lg>
<l>The entire capital invested in the various
manufactures in the United States, on
the 1st of June, 1850, not to include any
establishments producing less than the
annual value of $500, amounted, in
round numbers, to: $530,000,000</l>
<l>Value of raw materials used: 550,000,000</l>
<l>Amount paid for labor: 240,000,000</l>
<l>Value of manufactured articles: $1,020,300,000</l>
<l>Number of persons employed: 1,050,000</l>
</lg>

<p>
The following are the number of establishments in
operation, and capital employed in cotton, woolens,
and iron:
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{1cm} p{1cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(15) rw(10) rw(10)'">
<row><cell></cell><cell>No. of Estab.</cell><cell>Capital invested.</cell></row>
<row><cell>Cotton</cell><cell>1094</cell><cell>$74,501,031</cell></row>
<row><cell>Woolens</cell><cell>1559</cell><cell>28,118,650</cell></row>
<row><cell>Pig Iron</cell><cell>377</cell><cell>17,356,425</cell></row>
<row><cell>Castings</cell><cell>1391</cell><cell>17,416,360</cell></row>
<row><cell>Wrought iron</cell><cell>422</cell><cell>14,495,220</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
The value of articles manufactured in 1849 was
as follows, compared with 1839.
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{2cm} p{2cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(15) rw(10) rw(10)'">
<row><cell></cell><cell>1849.</cell><cell>1839.</cell></row>
<row><cell>Cottons</cell><cell>$61,869,184</cell><cell>$46,350,453</cell></row>
<row><cell>Woolens</cell><cell>43,207,555</cell><cell>20,696,999</cell></row>
<row><cell>Pig Iron</cell><cell>12,748,777</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>Castings</cell><cell>25,108,155</cell><cell>286,903</cell></row>
<row><cell>Wrought Iron</cell><cell>16,747,074</cell><cell>197,233</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
The period which has elapsed since the receipt of
the returns at Washington, has been too short to enable
the Census-office to make more than a general
report of the facts relating to a few of the most important
manufactures. The complete statistical returns,
when published, will present a very full view
of the varied interests and extent of the industrial
pursuits of the people.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>The Press.</hi>&mdash;The statistics of the newspaper
press form an interesting feature in the returns of
the Seventh Census. It appears that the whole
number of newspapers and periodicals in the United
States, on the first day of June, 1850, amounted to
2800. Of these, 2494 were fully returned, 234 had
all the facts excepting circulation given, and 72 are
estimated for California, the Territories, and for
those that may have been omitted by the assistant
marshals. From calculations made on the statistics
returned, and estimated circulations where they have
been omitted, it appears that the aggregate circulation
of these 2800 papers and periodicals is about
5,000,000, and that the entire number of copies
printed annually in the United States, amounts to
422,600,000. The following table will show the
number of daily, weekly, monthly, and other issues,
with the aggregate circulation of each class:
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(15) rw(10) rw(10) rw(10)'">
<row><cell>Published.</cell><cell>No.</cell><cell>Circulation.</cell>
     <cell>Copies annually.</cell></row>
<row><cell>Daily </cell><cell>350</cell><cell>750,000</cell><cell>235,000,000</cell></row>
<row><cell>Tri-weekly</cell><cell>150</cell><cell>75,000</cell>
     <cell>11,700,000</cell></row>
<row><cell>Semi-weekly</cell><cell>125</cell><cell>80,000</cell>
     <cell>8,320,000</cell></row>
<row><cell>Weekly</cell><cell>2,000</cell><cell>2,875,000</cell>
     <cell>149,500,000</cell></row>
<row><cell>Semi-monthly</cell><cell>50</cell><cell>300,000</cell>
     <cell>7,200,000</cell></row>
<row><cell>Monthly</cell><cell>100</cell><cell>900,000</cell><cell>10,800,000</cell></row>
<row><cell>Quarterly</cell><cell>25</cell><cell>29,000</cell><cell>80,000</cell></row>
<row><cell>Total</cell><cell>2,800</cell><cell>5,000,000</cell>
     <cell>422,600,000</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
Of these papers 424 are issued in the New England
States, 876 in the Middle States, 716 in the Southern
States, and 784 in the Western States. The average
circulation of papers in the United States, is
1785. There is one publication for every 7161 free
inhabitants in the United States and Territories.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Mortality.</hi>&mdash;The statistics of mortality for the
<pb n='561'/><anchor id='Pg561'/>
census year, represent the number of deaths occurring
within the year as 320,194, the ratio being as
one to 72.6 of the living population, or as ten to each
726 of the population. The rate of mortality in this
statement, taken as a whole, seems so much less
than that of any portion of Europe, that it must, at
present, be received with some degree of allowance.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Indians.</hi>&mdash;The Indian tribes within the boundaries
of the United States are not, as is well known, included
in the census, but an enumeration of these
tribes was authorized by an act of Congress, passed
in March, 1847; and the census of the tribes east of
the Rocky Mountains has been taken by Henry R.
Schoolcraft, Esq., under the direction of the Bureau
of Indian Affairs. These returns have been published,
with estimates for the Indian tribes in Oregon,
California, Utah, &amp;c., and the result shows the total
Indian population to be 388,229, to which may be
added from 25,000 to 35,000 Indians within the area
of the unexplored territories of the United States.
The Indian population of Oregon is estimated at
22,733; of California 32,231; of New Mexico 92,130;
of Utah 11,500; of Texas 24,100. In round numbers,
the total number of Indians within our boundaries
may be stated at 420,000.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Census of 1840.</hi>&mdash;For the purpose of comparison,
we here present a summary of the Sixth Census of
the United States, June 1, 1840.
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(25) rw(10) rw(10) rw(10)'">
<row><cell>Free States.</cell><cell>Whites.</cell><cell>Free col.</cell>
     <cell>Slaves.</cell></row>
<row><cell>Maine</cell><cell>284,036</cell><cell>537</cell><cell>1</cell></row>
<row><cell>New Hampshire</cell><cell>500,438</cell><cell>1,355</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>Vermont</cell><cell>291,218</cell><cell>730</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>Massachusetts</cell><cell>729,030</cell><cell>8,668</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>Rhode Island</cell><cell>105,587</cell><cell>3,238</cell><cell>5</cell></row>
<row><cell>Connecticut</cell><cell>301,856</cell><cell>8,105</cell><cell>17</cell></row>
<row><cell>Total of N. England</cell><cell>2,212,165</cell><cell>22,633</cell>
     <cell>23</cell></row>
<row><cell>New York</cell><cell>2,378,894</cell><cell>50,027</cell><cell>4</cell></row>
<row><cell>New Jersey</cell><cell>351,588</cell><cell>21,044</cell><cell>674</cell></row>
<row><cell>Pennsylvania</cell><cell>1,676,115</cell><cell>47,864</cell>
     <cell>64</cell></row>
<row><cell>Ohio</cell><cell>1,502,122</cell><cell>17,342</cell><cell>3</cell></row>
<row><cell>Indiana</cell><cell>678,698</cell><cell>7,165</cell><cell>3</cell></row>
<row><cell>Illinois</cell><cell>472,254</cell><cell>3,598</cell><cell>331</cell></row>
<row><cell>Michigan</cell><cell>211,560</cell><cell>707</cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>Wisconsin</cell><cell>30,749</cell><cell>185</cell><cell>11</cell></row>
<row><cell>Iowa</cell><cell>42,924</cell><cell>172</cell><cell>16</cell></row>
<row><cell>Total Free States</cell><cell>9,557,065</cell><cell>170,727</cell>
     <cell>1129</cell></row>
</table>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(25) rw(10) rw(10) rw(10)'">
<row><cell>Slaveholding States.</cell><cell>Whites.</cell><cell>Free col.</cell>
     <cell>Slaves.</cell></row>
<row><cell>Delaware</cell><cell>58,161</cell><cell>16,919</cell><cell>2,605</cell></row>
<row><cell>Maryland</cell><cell>318,204</cell><cell>62,078</cell><cell>89,737</cell></row>
<row><cell>District of Columbia</cell><cell>30,657</cell><cell>8,361</cell>
     <cell>4,694</cell></row>
<row><cell>Virginia</cell><cell>740,968</cell><cell>49,842</cell>
     <cell>448,987</cell></row>
<row><cell>North Carolina</cell><cell>484,870</cell><cell>22,732</cell>
     <cell>255,817</cell></row>
<row><cell>South Carolina</cell><cell>259,084</cell><cell>8,276</cell>
     <cell>327,038</cell></row>
<row><cell>Georgia</cell><cell>407,695</cell><cell>2,753</cell><cell>280,944</cell></row>
<row><cell>Florida</cell><cell>27,943</cell><cell>837</cell><cell>25,717</cell></row>
<row><cell>Alabama</cell><cell>335,185</cell><cell>2,039</cell><cell>253,532</cell></row>
<row><cell>Mississippi</cell><cell>179,074</cell><cell>1,369</cell>
     <cell>195,211</cell></row>
<row><cell>Louisiana</cell><cell>158,457</cell><cell>25,592</cell>
     <cell>168,451</cell></row>
<row><cell>Arkansas</cell><cell>77,174</cell><cell>465</cell><cell>19,935</cell></row>
<row><cell>Tennessee</cell><cell>640,627</cell><cell>5,524</cell>
     <cell>183,059</cell></row>
<row><cell>Kentucky</cell><cell>590,253</cell><cell>7,317</cell><cell>182,258</cell></row>
<row><cell>Missouri</cell><cell>323,888</cell><cell>1,574</cell><cell>58,240</cell></row>
<row><cell>Total Slave States</cell><cell>4,632,640</cell><cell>215,568</cell>
     <cell>2,486,226</cell></row>
<row><cell>Total United States</cell><cell>14,189,705</cell><cell>386,295</cell>
     <cell>2,487,355</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
Total population of the United States in 1840,
17,063,355.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Atlantic States.</hi>&mdash;The progress of population
in the Atlantic States, since 1790, is shown by the
following table. The Middle States are New York,
New Jersey, and Pennsylvania.
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(15) rw(10) rw(10) rw(10)'">
<row><cell></cell><cell>New England.</cell><cell>Middle.</cell>
     <cell>Southern.</cell></row>
<row><cell>1790</cell><cell>1,009,823</cell><cell>958,632</cell>
     <cell>1,852,504</cell></row>
<row><cell>1800</cell><cell>1,233,315</cell><cell>1,401,070</cell>
     <cell>2,285,909</cell></row>
<row><cell>1810</cell><cell>1,471,891</cell><cell>2,014,695</cell>
     <cell>2,674,913</cell></row>
<row><cell>1820</cell><cell>1,659,808</cell><cell>2,699,845</cell>
     <cell>3,061,074</cell></row>
<row><cell>1830</cell><cell>1,954,717</cell><cell>3,587,664</cell>
     <cell>3,645,752</cell></row>
<row><cell>1840</cell><cell>2,234,822</cell><cell>4,526,260</cell>
     <cell>3,925,299</cell></row>
<row><cell>1850</cell><cell>2,728,106</cell><cell>5,898,735</cell>
     <cell>4,678,728</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
It may be interesting to notice in this sketch of
the progress of the United States, the population of
the country comprising the original thirteen States,
while under the Colonial Government, as far as the
same is known. The first permanent colony planted
by the English in America was Virginia, the settlement
of which commenced in 1607. This was followed
by the colonization of Massachusetts, in two
original settlements; first that commenced at Plymouth
in 1620; the other at Salem and Boston in 1628
and 1630. Maryland was settled by English and
Irish Catholics in 1634; and New York by the Dutch
in 1613.
</p>

<p>
With the exception of Vermont, the foundation of
all the New England States was laid within twenty
years from the arrival of the first settlers at Plymouth.
Hutchinson says that during ten years next prior to
1640, the number of Puritans who came over to New
England amounted to 21,000. If this estimate is
correct, the whole number of inhabitants in New
England in 1640, taking the natural increase into
consideration, must have been over 32,000. As the
Puritans came into power in England, under Cromwell,
their emigration was checked, and almost
ceased, until the restoration, in 1660. Mr. Seaman,
in his <q>Progress of Nations,</q> has estimated the
population of New England to have increased to
120,000 in 1701, and gives the following statement
of the population of the original United States,
while British colonies, estimated for 1701, 1749,
and 1775:
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2.5cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm}';
             tblcolumns: 'lw(15) rw(10) rw(10) rw(10)'">
<row><cell></cell><cell>1701.</cell><cell>1749.</cell><cell>1775.</cell></row>
<row><cell>New England</cell><cell>120,000</cell><cell>385,000</cell>
    <cell>705,000</cell></row>
<row><cell>New York</cell><cell>30,000</cell><cell>100,000</cell>
     <cell>200,000</cell></row>
<row><cell>New Jersey</cell><cell>15,000</cell><cell>60,000</cell>
     <cell>120,000</cell></row>
<row><cell>Pennsylvania</cell><cell>20,000</cell><cell>200,000</cell>
     <cell>325,008</cell></row>
<row><cell>Delaware</cell><cell>5,000</cell><cell>25,000</cell><cell>40,000</cell></row>
<row><cell>Maryland</cell><cell>20,000</cell><cell>100,000</cell>
     <cell>210,000</cell></row>
<row><cell>Virginia</cell><cell>70,000</cell><cell>250,000</cell>
     <cell>540,000</cell></row>
<row><cell>North Carolina</cell><cell>20,000</cell><cell>80,000</cell>
     <cell>260,000</cell></row>
<row><cell>South Carolina</cell><cell>7,000</cell><cell>50,000</cell>
     <cell>160,000</cell></row>
<row><cell>Georgia</cell><cell>--</cell><cell>10,000</cell><cell>40,000</cell></row>
<row><cell>Total</cell><cell>307,000</cell><cell>1,260,000</cell>
     <cell>2,600,000</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
From 1750 to 1790 (Mr. Seaman states), the white
population of the Southern Colonies or States increased
faster than the same class in the Northern
States, and about as fast from 1790 to 1800. But
since that period the increase of whites has been
greater in proportion in the Northern than in the
Southern States.
</p>

<p>
In estimating the future progress of that part of the
Continent of America within the boundaries of the
United States, with reference to the march of population
over the immense regions west of the Mississippi,
it should be borne in mind that there is a
large tract, of about one thousand miles in breadth,
between the western boundaries of Missouri and
Arkansas, and the Rocky Mountains, which is mostly
uninhabitable for agricultural purposes, the soil
being sterile, without timber, and badly watered.
But the population flowing into California and Oregon,
attracted by the rich mineral and agricultural
resources of those extensive regions, leaves no doubt
that our States on the Pacific will form a most important
part of the Republic, and afford new fields
for enterprise for many future years.
</p>

<p>
In taking the Seventh Census of the United States,
there have been engaged 45 marshals, and 3231 assistants.
The aggregate amount appropriated by
Congress for the expenses was $1,267,500. On the
30th of September last there were employed in the
Census-office ninety-one clerks, who in November
were increased to one hundred and forty-eight.
</p>


<pb n='562'/><anchor id='Pg562'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>The Immensity of the Universe!</hi>&mdash;How
often has the grandeur of the conception been
marred by the scientific puerilities that have been
brought to its aid. Lecturers have astonished us with
rows of decimals, as though these could vivify the
imaginative faculty, or impart an idea in any respect
more elevated than could have been entertained
through an unscientific yet devout contemplation of
the works and ways of God. They have talked to us
of millions, and millions of millions, as though the
computation of immense numbers denoted the highest
exercise of the human intellect, or the loftiest sublimities
of human thought. Sometimes they would
vary the effect by telling us how many billions of
years it would take for a railroad locomotive to travel
across the solar system, or for a cannon ball to fly to
the widest range of a comet's orbit, or for the flash of
the electric telegraph to reach the supposed remotest
confines of the Milky Way. And so we have known
some preachers attempt to measure eternity by clocks
and pendulums, or sand-glasses as large as the earth's
orbit, and dropping one grain of sand every million of
years, as though any thing of that kind could come
up to the dread impression of that one Saxon word&mdash;<emph>forever</emph>,
or the solemn grandeur of the Latin <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>secula
seculorum</foreign>, or to the effect produced by any of those
simple reduplications through which language has
ever sought to set forth the immeasurable conception,
by making its immeasurability the very essence of the
thought, and of the term by which it is denoted.
</p>

<p>
Such contrivances as we have mentioned only
weary instead of aiding the conceptive faculty. If
any such help is required for the mind, one of the
shortest formulas of arithmetic or algebra, we contend,
would be the most effective. The more we can
express by the highest symbol, the less is the true
grandeur of the thought impaired by any of that imitating
and ever-foiled effort of the imagination which
attends those longer methods that are addressed solely
to it. Let us attempt such a formula by taking at
once, for our unit of division, the most minute space
ever brought into visibility by the highest power of
the microscope. Let our dividend on the other hand,
be the utmost distance within which the telescope has
ever detected the existence of a material entity. Denote
the quotient by the letter <hi rend='italic'>x</hi>, and let <hi rend='italic'>r</hi>
stand for the radius of the earth's orbit. Then
<hi rend='italic'>rx<hi rend='vertical-align: super'>x</hi></hi> is the
formula sought; and if any one think for a moment
on the immense magnitude of the latter part of the
expression (<hi rend='italic'>x<hi rend='vertical-align: super'>x</hi></hi>),
and at what a rate the involution expands itself even when
<hi rend='italic'>x</hi> represents a moderate number,<note place='foot'>When
<hi rend='italic'>x</hi> = 10, then
<hi rend='italic'>x<hi rend='vertical-align: super'>x</hi></hi> = 10,000,000,000,
or <hi rend='italic'>ten thousand
million</hi>. When <hi rend='italic'>x</hi> = 100, the value of the function
passes beyond all bounds capable of being expressed by
any known numerical names. If we might manufacture
a term for the occasion, it would be somewhere in the
neighborhood of a <hi rend='italic'>quadragintillion</hi>.</note>
he may judge how immeasurably it leaves behind
it all other computations. The whole of the
universe made visible by Lord Rosse's telescope actually
shrinks to the dimensions of an animalcule in
the comparison. And yet, even at that distance, so
utterly surpassing all conceivability, we may suppose
the existence of worlds still embraced within the dominions
of God, and still, in the same ratio, remote
from the frontiers of his immeasurable empire.
</p>

<p>
But let us return from so fruitless an inquiry.
There is another idea suggested by the contemplation
of the heavens of no less interest, although presenting
a very different, if not an opposite aspect. It is the
comparative <hi rend='smallcaps'>nothingness</hi> of the tangible material
universe, as contrasted with the space, or spaces,
occupied even within its visible boundaries. The
distance of our sun from the nearest fixed star (conjectured
by astronomers to be the star 61 Cygni)
is estimated at being at least 60,000,000,000,000 of
miles, or 600,000 diameters of the earth's orbit, or
about sixty million diameters of the sun himself.
Taking this for the average distance between the
stars, although it is doubtless much greater, and supposing
them to be equal in magnitude to each other,
and to the sun, we have these most striking results.
The sun and the star in Cygnus (and so of the others)
would present the same relation as that of two
balls of ten inches diameter placed ten thousand
miles apart, or one a thousand miles above the North
Pole, and the other a like distance below the South
Pole of our earth. Preserving the same ratio, we
might represent them again, by two half-inch bullets
placed, the one at Chicago, and the other on the top
of the City Hall in the City of New York; and so
on, until finally we would come down to two points,
less than a thousandth part of an inch in diameter,
requiring the microscope to render them visible, and
situated at the distance of a mile asunder. Suppose
then an inch of the finest thread of thistle-down cut
into a thousand sections, and a globular space as
large as the sphere of our earth, occupied with such
invisible specks, at distances from each other never
less than a mile at least, and we have a fair representation
of the visible universe&mdash;on a reduced scale,
it is true, yet still preserving all the relative magnitudes,
and all the adjusted proportions of the parts to
each other, and to the whole. On any scale we may
assume, all that partakes, in the lowest degree, of
sensible materiality, bears but an infinitessimal proportion
to what <hi rend='italic'>appears</hi> to be but vacant space. In
this view of the matter it becomes more than a probability
that there is no relatively denser solidity than
this any where existing. Even in the hardest and
apparently most impenetrable matter, the ultimate
particles may be as sparse in their relative positions,
as are, to each other, the higher compound and component
bodies which we know are dispersed at such
immense distances as mere points in space.
</p>

<p>
But not to dwell on this idea, there is another of a
kindred nature to which we would call attention, although
it must often have come home to every serious mind.
Who can soberly contemplate the mighty
heavens without being struck with what may be called
the <hi rend='smallcaps'>isolation</hi> of the universe, or rather, of the innumerable
parts of which it is composed. To the
most thoughtful spirit a sense of loneliness must be a
main, if not a predominant element in such a survey.
The first impression from these glittering points in
space may, indeed, be that of a <emph>social</emph> congregated
host. And yet how perfect the <emph>seclusion</emph>; so that
while there is granted a bare knowledge of each other's
existence, the possibility of any more intimate
communion, without a change in present laws, is
placed altogether beyond the reach of hope. What
immeasurable fields of space intervene even between
those that seem the nearest to each other on the celestial
canvas!
</p>

<p>
We may say, then, that whatever may be reserved
for a distant future, this perfect seclusion seems now
to be the predominant feature, or law, of the Divine
dispensations. No doubt our Creator could easily
have formed us with sensitive powers, or a sensitive
organization, capable of being affected from immensely
remote, as well as from comparatively near distances.
There is nothing inconceivable in such an
adaptation of the nervous system to a finer class of
etherial undulations as might have enabled us to see
and hear what is going on in the most distant worlds.
But it hath not so pleased Him to constitute us; and
<pb n='563'/><anchor id='Pg563'/>
we think, with all reverence be it said, that we see
wisdom in the denial of such powers unless accompanied
by an organization which would, on the other
hand, utterly unfit us for the narrow world in which
we have our present probationary residence. If the
excitements of our limited earth bear with such exhausting
power upon our sensitive system, what if a
universe should burst upon us with its tremendous
realities of weal or woe!
</p>

<p>
It is in kindness, then, that each world is severed,
for the present, from the general intercourse, and
that so perfectly that no amount of science can ever
be expected to overcome the separation. <q><hi rend='smallcaps'>He</hi> hath
set a bound which we can not pass,</q> except in imagination.
Even analogical reasoning utterly fails, or
only lights us to the conclusion that the diversities
of structure, of scenery, and of condition, must be as
great, and as numberless as the spaces, and distances,
and positions they respectively occupy. The moral
sense, however, is not wholly silent. It has a voice
<q>to which we do well to take heed</q> when the last
rays of reason and analogy have gone out in darkness.
It can not be, it affirms&mdash;it can not be, that
the worlds on worlds which the eye and the telescope
reveal to us are but endless repetitions of the fallen
earth on which we dwell. What a pall would such
a thought spread over the universe! How sad would
it render the contemplation of the heavens! How
full of melancholy the conception that throughout the
measureless fields of space there may be the same
wretchedness and depravity that have formed the
mournful history of our earth, and which we fail to
see in its true intensity, because we have become
hardened through long and intimate familiarity with
its scenes. And yet, for all that natural science
merely, and natural theology can prove, it may be so,
and even far worse. For all that they can affirm,
either as to possibility or probability, a history of
woe surpassing any thing that earth has ever exhibited,
or inhabitant of earth has ever imagined, may
have every where predominated. The highest reasoning
of natural theology can only set out for us
some cold system of optimism, which may make it
perfectly consistent with its heartless intellectuality
to regard the sufferings of a universe, and that suffering
a million-fold more intense than any thing ever
yet experienced, as only a means to some fancied
good time coming, and ever coming, for other dispensations
and other races, and other types of being in
a future incalculably remote. To a right thinking
mind nothing can be more gloomy than that view of
the universe which is given by science alone, taking
the earth as its base line of measurement, and its
present condition (assumed to have come from no
moral catastrophe, but to be a necessary result of
universal physical laws) as the only ground of legitimate
induction. But we have a surer guide than
this. Besides the moral sense, we have the representations
the Bible gives of God and Christ. These
form the ground of the belief that our earth is not a
fair sample of the universe, that fallen worlds are
rare and extraordinary, as requiring extraordinary
mediatorial remedies&mdash;that blessedness is the rule
and not the exception, and that the Divine love and
justice have each respect to individual existences,
instead of being both absorbed in that <emph>impersonal</emph> attribute
which has regard only to being in general, or
to worlds and races viewed only in reference to some
interminable progress, condemned by its own law of
development to eternal imperfection, because never
admitting the idea of finish of workmanship, or of
finality of purpose, either in relation to the universe
or any of its parts.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Editor's Easy Chair</head>

<p>
New-Yorkers have a story to tell of the winter
just now dying, that will seem, perhaps, to
the children of another generation like a pretty bit of
Munchausenism. Whoever has seen our Metropolitan
City only under the balmy atmosphere of a soft
May-day, or under the smoky sultriness of a tropic
August&mdash;who has known our encompassing rivers
only as green arms of sparkling water, laughing under
the shadows of the banks, and of shipping&mdash;would
never have known the Petersburg of a place
into which our passing winter has transformed the
whole.
</p>

<p>
Only fancy our green East River, that all the summer
comes rocking up from the placid Sound, with a
hoarse murmur through the rocks of Hell-Gate, and
loitering, like a tranquil poem, under the shade of
the willows of Astoria, all bridged with white and
glistening ice! And the stanch little coasting-craft,
that in summer-time spread their wings in companies,
like flocks of swans, within the bays that make
the vestibule to the waters of the city, have been
caught in their courses, and moored to their places,
by a broad anchor of sheeted silver.
</p>

<p>
The oyster-men, at the beacon of the Saddle-rock,
have cut openings in the ice; and the eel-spearers
have plied their pronged trade, with no boat save the
frozen water.
</p>

<p>
In town, too, a carnival of sleighs and bells has
wakened Broadway into such hilarity as was like to
the festivals we read of upon the Neva. And if American
character verged ever toward such coquetry of
flowers and bon-bons as belongs to the Carnival at
Rome, it would have made a pretty occasion for the
show, when cheeks looked so tempting, and the
streets and house-tops sparkled with smiles.
</p>

<p>
As for the country, meantime, our visitors tell us
that it has been sleeping for a month and more under
a glorious cloak of snow; and that the old days
of winter-cheer and fun have stolen back to mock at
the anthracite fires, and to woo the world again to
the frolic of moonlight rides and to the flashing play
of a generous hickory-flame.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Beside the weather, which has made the ballast
of very much of the salon chat, city people have been
measuring opinions of late in their hap-hazard and
careless way, about a new and most unfortunate
trial of divorce. It is sadly to be regretted that the
criminations and recriminations between man and
wife should play such part as they do, not only in
the gossip, but in the papers of the day. Such reports
as mark the progress of the Forrest trial (though
we say it out of our Easy Chair) make very poor
pabulum for the education of city children. And we
throw out, in way of hint, both to legislators and
editors, the question how this matter is to be mended.
</p>

<p>
As for the merits of the case, which have been so
widely discussed, we&mdash;talking as we do in most kindly
fashion of chit-chat&mdash;shall venture no opinion. At
the same time, we can not forbear intimating our
strong regret, that a lady, who by the finding of an
impartial jury, was declared intact in character, and
who possessed thereby a start-point for winning high
estimation in those quiet domestic circles which her
talents were fitted to adorn&mdash;should peril all this, by
a sudden appeal to the sympathies of those who judge
of character by scenic effects: and who, by the very
necessity of her new position, will measure her
worth by the glare of the foot-lights of a theatre!
</p>

<p>
Mrs. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Forrest</hi> has preferred admiration to sympathy;
<pb n='564'/><anchor id='Pg564'/>
her self-denial is not equal to her love of approbation.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
European topic still has its place, and <hi rend='smallcaps'>Louis Napoleon</hi>
with his adroit but tyrannic manuvres, fills
up a large space of the talk. It would seem, that he
was rivaling the keenest times of the Empire, in the
zeal of his espionage; and every mail brings us intelligence
of some unfortunately free-talker, who is
<q>advised</q> to quit <q>the Republic.</q>
</p>

<p>
Americans are very naturally in bad odor; and
from private advices we learn that their requisitions
to see the lions of the capital city, meet with a
growing coolness. Still, however, the gay heart of
Paris leaps on, in its fond, foolish heedlessness; and
the operas and theatres win the discontented away
from their cares, and bury their lost liberties under
the shabby concealment of a laugh.
</p>

<p>
Report says that the masked balls of the Opera
were never more fully attended; or the gayety of
their Carnival pursued with a noisier recklessness.
</p>

<p>
This, indeed, is natural enough: when men are
denied the liberty of thinking, they will relieve themselves
by a license of desire; and when the soul is
pinioned by bonds, the senses will cheat the man.
</p>

<p>
There is no better safeguard for Despotism, whether
under cover of a Kingdom or a Republic&mdash;than immorality.
The brutality of lust is the best extinguisher
of thought: and the drunkenness of sensualism
will inevitably stifle all the nobler impulses of
the mind.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
As for political chat at home, it runs now in the
channel of President-making; and the dinner-tables
of Washington are lighted up with comparison of
chances. Under this, the gayeties proper are at a
comparative stand-still. The Assembly balls, as we
learn, are less brilliant, and more promiscuous than
ever; and even the select parties of the National
Hotel are singularly devoid of attractions. Lent too
is approaching, to whip off, with its scourge of custom,
the cue of papal diplomats; and then, the earnestness
of the campaign for the Presidency will embrue
the talk of the whole Metropolis.
</p>

<p>
While we are thus turning our pen-point Washington-ward,
we shall take the liberty of felicitating ourselves,
upon the contrast which has belonged to the
reception of <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lola Montes</hi>, in New York, and in the
metropolis of the nation. Here, she was scarce the
mention of a respectable journal; there, she has been
honored by distinguished <q>callers.</q>
</p>

<p>
We see in this a better tone of taste in our own
city, than in the city of the nation; and it will justify
the opinion, which is not without other support, that
the range of honorable delicacy is far lower in the
city of our representatives, than in any city of their
clients. Representatives leave their proprieties at
home; and many a member would blush at a license
within the purlieus of his own constituency, which
he courts as an honor in the city of our Csars! We
wish them joy of their devotion to the Danseuse,
whom&mdash;though we count as humble as themselves in
point of morals&mdash;we believe to be superior, mentally,
to the bulk of her admirers.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
As a token of French life and morals, we make
out this sad little bit of romance from a recent paper:
</p>

<p>
A few days since, some boatmen upon the Seine
saw what appeared to be a pair of human feet floating
down the stream; manning their barge, they
hastened to the spot, and succeeded in drawing from
the water the body of a young woman, apparently
about twenty-five years of age, and elegantly dressed;
a heavy stone was attached to her neck by a cord.
Within a small tin box, in the pocket of her dress,
carefully sealed, was found the following note:
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>My parents I have never known; up to the age
of seven years, I was brought up by a good woman
of a little village of the Department of the Seine and
Marne; and from that time, to the age of eighteen I
was placed in a boarding-house of Paris. Nothing
but was provided for my education. My parents were
without doubt rich, for nothing was neglected that
could supply me with rich toilet, and my bills were
regularly paid by an unknown hand.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>One day I received a letter; it was signed, <q>Your
mother.</q> Then I was happy!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>Your birth,</q> she wrote me, <q>would destroy the
repose of our entire family; one day, however, you
shall know me: honorable blood flows in your veins,
my daughter&mdash;do not doubt it. Your future is made
sure. But for the present, it is necessary that you
accept a place provided for you in the establishment
of M&mdash;&mdash;; and when once you have made yourself
familiar with the duties of the place, you shall be
placed at the head of an even larger establishment.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q>A few days after, I found myself in the new position.
Years passed by. Then came the Revolution
of February. From that fatal time I have heard nothing
of my family. Alone in the world, believing
myself deserted, maddened by my situation, I yielded,
in an evil hour, to the oaths of one who professed
to love me. He deceived me; there is nothing now
to live for; suicide is my only refuge. I only pray
that those who find this poor body, will tell my story
to the world; and, please God, it may soften, the
heart of those who desert their children!</q>
</p>

<p>
The story may be true or not, in fact; it is certainly
true to the life, and the religion of Paris: and
while such life, and such sense of duty remains, it
is not strange that a Napoleon can ride into rule,
and that the French Republic should be firmest under
the prick of bayonets.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
It appears that a Madame de la Ribossire has
deceased lately in Paris, leaving a very large fortune&mdash;to
the city of Paris&mdash;much to the ire, not only of
her family, but of sundry friends, literary and others,
who had contributed very greatly to her amusement.
</p>

<p>
A French writer comments on the matter in a
strain which, considering our duties as Editor, we
shall not think it worth while to gainsay.
</p>

<p>
Madame de la Ribossire was a lady of refined
tastes, who derived a large part of her enjoyment of
life from the accomplishments of artistic and literary
gentlemen; how then, does it happen that she should
not have given proof of the pleasure she had received
by a few princely legacies?
</p>

<p>
In the good old times (may they come again!)
authors had different treatment. Thus Pliny, the
younger, in writing to Tacitus, says, <q>I have received
the past year some twenty-five thousand <foreign rend='italic'>ses
terces</foreign> more than yourself&mdash;in the way of legacies&mdash;but
don't be jealous!</q>
</p>

<p>
The truth is, that a rich man rarely died in Rome,
without leaving some token to the author who had
beguiled the hours of solitude&mdash;enlarged his ideas,
or consoled him in affliction. Cicero speaks of a
large inheritance, which he possessed, of statues
and beautiful objects. In short, Roman literature
and the history of antiquity grew out of those princely
endowments, which independence and strength
of opinion did not fail to secure.
</p>

<p>
But nowadays, says the French author, a writer is
paid like a starveling; and picks up such crumbs of
charity as fall only from the tables of the publishers.
<pb n='565'/><anchor id='Pg565'/>
And he goes on pleasantly, to suggest a change in
this matter; which, if it gain footing on the other
side of the water, we shall take the liberty of welcoming
very kindly in America. When the custom
of leaving legacies to writers is in vogue, we shall
take the liberty of suggesting, in our own behalf,
such objects of art as would be agreeable to us; and
such stocks as we should prefer as a permanent investment.
</p>

<p>
Meantime, we suck our quill in our Easy Chair,
with as much forbearance as we can readily command.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Editor's Drawer.</head>

<p>
That was a dignified and graceful entertainment
which recently took place in the gay capital of
France. Some two hundred of the <q>nobility and
gentry,</q> including a sprinkling of English aristocracy,
assembled in a prominent hall of the city, to
see a <hi rend='italic'>Rat and Owl Fight</hi>! And while they were
getting ready the combatants, which went by sundry
fancy or favorite names, they had a <emph>poet</emph> in leash,
who <q>improvised a <foreign rend='italic'>strophe</foreign></q> for the occasion! Think
of a <q>poet</q> apostrophizing, in studied measures,
twelve rats and four old owls! But that's <q>the
way they <emph>do</emph> things in France.</q>
</p>

<p>
They have another very sensible and dramatic
amusement there, which they call the <q><foreign rend='italic'>Mat de
Cocagne</foreign>.</q> This is a long pole, of about eighteen
inches diameter at the base, well polished and
greased from top to bottom, with soft soap, tallow,
and other slippery ingredients. To climb up this
pole to the top is an eminent exploit, which crowns
the victorious adventurer with a rich prize, and
gains him the acclamations of ten thousand spectators.
The <q>pretenders</q> strip off their upper gear
altogether, and roll up their trowsers mid-thigh, and
thus accoutred, present themselves at the bottom of
the mast. Now just listen to a description of the
operation, and reflections thereupon, and tell us
whether you ever read any thing more <q>perfectly
<emph>French</emph>.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>The first who attempt the ascent look for no
honor; their office is to prepare the way, and put
things in train for their successors: they rub off the
grease from the bottom, the least practicable part of
the pole. In every thing the first steps are the most
difficult, although seldom the most glorious; and
scarcely ever does the same person commence an
enterprise, and reap the fruit of its accomplishment.
They ascend higher by degrees, and the expert
climbers now come forth, the heroes of the list: they
who have been accustomed to gain prizes, whose
prowess is known, and whose fame is established
since many seasons. They do not expend their
strength in the beginning; they climb up gently, and
patiently, and modestly, and repose from time to
time; and they carry, as is permitted, a little sack
at their girdle, filled with ashes to neutralize the
grease and render it less slippery.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>All efforts, however, for a long time prove ineffectual.
There seems to be an ultimate point, which
no one can scan, the measure and term of human
strength; and to overreach it is at last deemed impossible.
Now and then a pretender essays his
awkward limbs, and reaching scarce half way even
to this point, falls back clumsily amidst the hisses
and laughter of the spectators; so in the world empirical
pretension comes out into notoriety for a
moment only to return with ridicule and scorn to its
original obscurity.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>But the charm is at length broken: a victorious
climber has transcended the point at which his predecessors
were arrested. Every one now does the
same: such are men: they want but a precedent:
as soon as it is proved that a thing is possible, it is
no longer difficult. Our climber continues his success:
farther and farther still; he is a few feet only
from the summit, but he is wearied, he relents.
Alas! is the prize, almost in his grasp, to escape
from him! He makes another effort, but it is of no
avail. He does not, however, lose ground: he reposes.
In the mean time, exclamations are heard,
of doubt, of success, of encouragement.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>After a lapse of two or three minutes, which is
itself a fatigue, he essays again. It is in vain! He
begins even to shrink: he has slipped downward a
few inches, and recovers his loss by an obstinate
struggle (<q><emph>applause</emph>!</q>&mdash;<q><emph>sensation</emph>!</q>),
but it is a supernatural
effort, and&mdash;his last. Soon after a murmur
is heard from the crowd below, half raillery and half
compassion, and the poor adventurer slides down,
mortified and exhausted, upon the earth!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>So a courtier, having planned from his youth his
career of ambition, struggles up the ladder, lubric
and precipitous, to the top&mdash;to the very consummation
of his hopes, and then falls back into the rubbish
from which he has issued; and they who envied his
fortune, now rejoice in his fall. What lessons of
philosophy in a greasy pole! What moral reflections
in a spectacle so empty to the common world!
What wholesome sermons are here upon the vanity
of human hopes, the disappointments of ambition,
and the difficulties of success in the slippery paths
of fortune and human greatness! But the very defeat
of the last adventurer has shown the <emph>possibility</emph>
of success, and prepared the way for his successor,
who mounts up and perches on the summit of the
mast, bears off the crown, and descends amidst the
shouts and applause of the multitude. It is Americus
Vespucius who bears away from Columbus the
recompense of his toils!</q>
</p>

<p>
So much for climbing a greased pole in reflective,
philosophical Paris!
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Inquisitiveness has been well described as <q>an
itch for prying into other people's affairs, to the neglect
of our own; an ignorant hankering after all such
knowledge as is not worth knowing; a curiosity to
learn things that are not at all curious.</q> People of
this stamp would rather be <q>put to the question</q>
than not to ask questions. Silence is torture to them.
A genuine <foreign rend='italic'>quidnunc</foreign> prefers
even false news to <emph>no</emph>
news; he prides himself upon having the first information
of things that never happened. Yankees are
supposed to have attained the greatest art in parrying
inquisitiveness, but there is a story extant of a
<q>Londoner</q> on his travels in the provinces, who
rather eclipses the cunning <q>Yankee Peddler.</q> In
traveling post, says the narrator, he was obliged to
stop at a village to replace a shoe which his horse
had lost; when the <q>Paul Pry</q> of the place bustled
up to the carriage-window, and without waiting for
the ceremony of an introduction, said:
</p>

<p>
<q>Good-morning, sir. Horse cast a shoe I see. I
suppose, sir, you are going to&mdash;?</q>
</p>

<p>
Here he paused, expecting the name of the place
to be supplied; but the gentleman answered:
</p>

<p>
<q>You are quite right; I generally go there at this
season.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Ay&mdash;ahem!&mdash;do you? And no doubt you are
now come from&mdash;?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Right again, sir; I <emph>live</emph> there.</q>
</p>

<pb n='566'/><anchor id='Pg566'/>

<p>
<q>Oh, ay; I see: you do! But I perceive it is a
London shay. Is there any thing stirring in London?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, yes; plenty of other chaises and carriages
of all sorts.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Ay, ay, of course. But what do folks say?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>They say their prayers every Sunday.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>That isn't what I mean. I want to know whether
there is any thing new and fresh.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes; bread and herrings.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Ah, you are a queer fellow. Pray, mister, may
I ask your name?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Fools and clowns,</q> said the gentleman, <q>call
me <q>Mister;</q> but I am in reality one of the clowns
of Aristophanes; and my real name is <hi rend='italic'>Brekekekex
Koax!</hi> Drive on, postillion!</q>
</p>

<p>
Now this is what <emph>we</emph> call a <q>pursuit of knowledge
under difficulties</q> of the most <emph>obstinate</emph> kind.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
In these <q>leaking</q> days of wintry-spring, when
that classical compound called <q><emph>splosh</emph>,</q> a conglomerate
of dirty snow and unmistakable mud, pervades
the streets of the city, perhaps these <q><hi rend='italic'>Street Thoughts
by a Surgeon</hi></q> may not be without some degree of
wholesome effect upon the community:
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In perambulating the streets at this period, what
a number of little ragamuffins I observe trundling
their hoops! With what interest I contemplate their
youthful sport; particularly when I regard its probable
consequences! A hoop runs between a gentleman's
legs. He falls. When I reflect on the wonderful
construction of the skeleton, and consider to how
many fractures and dislocations it is liable in such a
case, my bosom expands to a considerate police, to
whose <q>non-interference</q> we are indebted for such
chances of practice!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>The numerous bits of orange-peel which diversify
the pavement, oftentimes attract my attention.
Never do I kick one of them out of the way. The
blessings of a whole profession on the hands that
scatter them! Each single bit may supply a new
and instructive page to the <q>Chapter of Accidents.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Considering the damp, muddy state of the streets
at this time of the year, I am equally amazed and
delighted to see the ladies, almost universally, going
about in the thinnest of thin shoes. This elegant
fashion beautifully displays the conformation of the
ankle-joint; but to the practitioner it has another and
a stronger recommendation. I behold the delicate
foot separated scarcely by the thickness of thin paper
from the mire. I see the exquisite instep, undefended
but by a mere web. I meditate upon the influence
of the cold and wet upon the frame. I think
of the catarrhs, coughs, pleurisies, consumptions, and
other interesting affections that necessarily must result
from their application to the feet; and then I
reckon up the number of pills, boluses, powders,
draughts, mixtures, leeches, and blisters, which will
consequently be sent in to the fair sufferers, calculate
what they must come to, and wish that I had the
amount already in my pocket!</q>
</p>

<p>
A world of satirical truth is here, in a very small
compass.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
There is a good story told recently of Baron
Rothschild, of Paris, the richest man of his class in
the world, which shows that it is not only <q>money
which makes the mare go</q> (or horses either, for that
matter), but <q><emph>ready</emph> money,</q> <q>unlimited credit</q> to
the contrary notwithstanding. On a very wet and
disagreeable day, the Baron took a Parisian omnibus,
on his way to the Bourse, or Exchange; near which
the <q>Nabob of Finance</q> alighted, and was going
away without paying. The driver stopped him, and
demanded his fare. Rothschild felt in his pocket,
but he had not a <q>red cent</q> of change. The driver
was very wroth:
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, what did you get <emph>in</emph> for, if you could not
pay? You must have <emph>known</emph>, that you had no
money!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I am Baron Rothschild!</q> exclaimed the great
capitalist; <q>and there is my card!</q>
</p>

<p>
The driver threw the card in the gutter: <q>Never
heard of you before,</q> said the driver, <q>and don't
want to hear of you again. But I want my fare&mdash;and
I must <emph>have</emph> it!</q>
</p>

<p>
The great banker was in haste: <q>I have only an
order for a million,</q> he said. <q>Give me change;</q>
and he proffered a <q>coupon</q> for fifty thousand francs.
</p>

<p>
The conductor stared, and the passengers set up a
horse-laugh. Just then an <q>Agent de Change</q> came
by, and Baron Rothschild borrowed of him the six
sous.
</p>

<p>
The driver was now seized with a kind of remorseful
respect; and turning to the Money-King,
he said:
</p>

<p>
<q>If you want ten francs, sir, I don't mind lending
them to you on my own account!</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
<q>Out of the mouths of babes and sucklings,</q> says
the <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bible</hi>,
<q><hi rend='smallcaps'>Thou</hi> hast ordained praise.</q> Whoso
reads the following, will feel the force of the passage.
</p>

<p>
At an examination of a deaf and dumb institution
some years ago in London, a little boy was asked in
writing:
</p>

<p>
<q>Who made the world?</q>
</p>

<p>
He took the chalk, and wrote underneath the
words:
</p>

<p>
<q>In the beginning <hi rend='smallcaps'>God</hi> created the heavens and
the earth.</q>
</p>

<p>
The clergyman then inquired, in a similar manner
</p>

<p>
<q>Why did <hi rend='smallcaps'>Jesus Christ</hi> come into the world?</q>
</p>

<p>
A smile of gratitude rested upon the countenance
of the little fellow, as he wrote:
</p>

<p>
<q>This is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation,
that <hi rend='smallcaps'>Jesus Christ</hi> came into the world
to save sinners.</q>
</p>

<p>
A third question was then proposed, evidently
adapted to call the most powerful feelings into exercise:
</p>

<p>
<q>Why were <emph>you</emph> born deaf and dumb, when <emph>I</emph> can
both hear and speak?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Never,</q> said an eye-witness, <q rend='pre'>shall I forget the
look of resignation which sat upon his countenance,
when he again took the chalk and wrote:</q>
</p>

<p>
<q><emph>Even so, Father, for so it seemed good in Thy
sight!</emph></q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
We find a piece of poetry in the <q>Drawer,</q> entitled
<q><hi rend='italic'>The Husband's Complaint</hi>,</q> and we quote a
few stanzas from it to show, that there are elsewhere,
sympathizers with all those unfortunate husbands,
victims to German worsted, who are compelled to
see pink dogs with green eyes gradually growing before
them every day, or untamed African lions in
buff, with vermilion eyeballs, glaring from the frame
upon them.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>I hate the name of German wool,</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>In all its colors bright,</l>
<l>Of chairs and stools in fancy-work,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>I hate the very sight!</l>
<l>The rugs and slippers that I've seen,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>The ottomans and bags,</l>
<l>Sooner than wear a stitch on me,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend='post'>I'd walk the streets in rags!</q></l>
</lg>

<pb n='567'/><anchor id='Pg567'/>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>I've heard of wives too musical,</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Too talkative, or quiet;</l>
<l>Of scolding or of gaming wives,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And those too fond of riot;</l>
<l>But yet, of all the errors known,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Which to the women fall,</l>
<l>Forever doing <q>fancy-work,</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>I think exceeds them all!</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>The other day, when I came home,</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>No dinner was for me;</l>
<l>I asked my wife the reason why,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And she said <q>One, two, three!</q></l>
<l>I told her I was hungry,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And I stamped upon the floor,</l>
<l>She never looked at me, but said,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q>I want one dark-green more!</q></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Of course she makes me angry,</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>But she doesn't care for that;</l>
<l>But chatters while I talk to her,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend='pre'>One white and then a black;</q></l>
<l>One green, and then a purple,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>(Just hold your tongue, my dear,</l>
<l>You really do annoy me so),</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend='post'>I've made a wrong stitch here!</q></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q>And as for confidential chat,</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>With her eternal <q><emph>frame</emph>,</q></l>
<l>Though I should speak of fifty things,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>She'd answer me the same:</l>
<l>'Tis, <q rend='pre'>Yes, love&mdash;five reds, then a black&mdash;</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>(I quite agree with you)&mdash;</l>
<l>I've done this wrong&mdash;seven, eight, nine, ten,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend='post'>An orange&mdash;then a blue!</q></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>If any lady comes to tea,</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Her bag is first surveyed;</l>
<l>And if the pattern pleases her,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>A copy then is made;</l>
<l>She stares the men quite out of face,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And when I ask her why,</l>
<l>'Tis, <q rend='pre'>Oh, my love, the pattern of</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend='post'>His waistcoat struck my eye!</q></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>And if to walk I am inclined</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>(It's seldom I go out),</l>
<l>At every worsted-shop she sees,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Oh, how she looks about!</l>
<l>And says, <q rend='pre'>Bless me! I <emph>must</emph> 'go in,</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>The pattern is so rare;</l>
<l>That group of flowers is just the thing</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend='post'>I wanted for my chair!</q></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Besides, the things she makes are all</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Such <q>Touch-me-not</q> affairs,</l>
<l>I dare not even use a stool,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Nor screen; and as for chairs,</l>
<l>'Twas only yesterday I put</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>My youngest boy in one,</l>
<l>And until then I never knew</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>My wife had such a tongue!</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Alas, for my poor little ones!</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>They dare not move nor speak,</l>
<l>It's <q rend='pre'>Tom, be still, put down that bag,</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Why, Harriet, where's your feet!</l>
<l>Maria, standing on that stool!!</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>It wasn't made for use;</l>
<l>Be silent all: three greens, one red,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend='post'>A blue, and then a puce!</q></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Oh, Heaven preserve me from a wife</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>With <q>fancy-work</q> run wild;</l>
<l>And hands which never do aught else</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>For husband or for child:</l>
<l>Our clothes are rent, our bills unpaid,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Our house is in disorder,</l>
<l><emph>And all because my lady-wife</emph></l>
<l><q rend='post'><emph>Has taken to embroider</emph>!</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Private subscriptions to a book, <q>for the benefit
of the author,</q> is one way of paying creditors by
taxing your friends. There have been some curious
specimens of this kind of <q>raising the wind,</q> in this
same big metropolis of Gotham, which have proved
what is called at the West <q>a caution;</q> a caution
which the victims found, to their mortification, that
they needed beforehand. <q>All honor to the sex,</q>
we say, of course, but not the <emph>same</emph> honor to <emph>all</emph> of
the sex; for there have been instances, hereabout,
of inveterate feminine book-purveyors, who have reflected
little honor upon themselves, and less upon
<q>the sex;</q> as certain public functionaries could bear
witness&mdash;in fact, <emph>have</emph> borne witness, upon the
witness-stand. There is a laughable instance recorded
of a new method of giving a subscription, which we
shall venture to quote in this connection. Many
years ago, a worthy and well-known English nobleman,
having become embarrassed in his circumstances,
a subscription was set on foot by his friends,
and a letter, soliciting contributions, was addressed,
among others, to Lord Erskine, who immediately
dispatched the following answer:
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><hi rend='smallcaps'>My dear Sir John</hi>:</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>I am enemy to subscriptions of this nature; first, because
my own finances are by no means in a flourishing
plight; and secondly, because pecuniary assistance thus
conferred, must be equally painful to the donor and the
receiver. As I feel, however, the sincerest gratitude for
your public services, and regard for your private worth,
I have great pleasure in <emph>subscribing</emph>&mdash;[Here the worthy
nobleman, big with expectation, turned over the leaf, and
finished the perusal of the note, which terminated as follows]:
in <emph>subscribing</emph> myself,</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>My dear Sir John,</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Yours, very faithfully,</q>
</p>

<p>
<q><hi rend='smallcaps'>Erskine.</hi></q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Very bad spelling is sometimes the best, as in
the case of the English beer-vender, who wrote over
his shop-door:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<q><emph>Bear</emph> sold here.</q>
</quote>

<p>
Tom Hood, who saw it, said that it was spelled
right, because the fluid he sold was his own <emph>Bruin</emph>!
</p>

<p>
Not less ingenious was the device of the quack-doctor,
who announced in his printed handbills that
he could instantly cure <q>the most obstinate <emph>aguews</emph>;</q>
which orthography proved that he was no conjuror,
and did not attempt to cure them by <emph>a spell</emph>.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
It was Punch, if we remember rightly, who told
the story, some years ago, of a man who loaned an
umbrella to a friend, a tradesman in his street, on a
wet, nasty day. It was not returned, and on <emph>another</emph>
wet, disagreeable day, he called for it, but found his
friend at the door, going out with it in his hand.
</p>

<p>
<q>I've come for my umbrella,</q> exclaimed the
loan-<emph>or</emph>.
</p>

<p>
<q>Can't help <emph>that</emph>,</q> exclaimed the borrower; <q>don't
you see that I am going out with it?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well&mdash;yes&mdash;</q> replied the lender, astounded at
such outrageous impudence; <q>yes; but&mdash;but&mdash;but
what am <emph>I</emph> to do?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Do?</q> replied the other, as he threw up the top,
and walked off; <q>do? do as <emph>I</emph> did: <emph>borrow one</emph>!</q>
</p>

<p>
One of the best chapters in <q>Mrs. Caudle's Curtain
Lectures,</q> is where that amiable and greatly-abused
angel reproaches her inhuman spouse with
loaning the family umbrella:
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Ah! that's the third umbrella gone since Christmas!
What were you to do? Why, let him go home
in the rain. I don't think there was any thing about
<emph>him</emph> that would spoil. Take cold, indeed! He does
not look like one o' the sort to take cold. He'd better
taken cold, than our only umbrella. Do you hear the
rain, Caudle? I say, do you <emph>hear the rain</emph>? Do you
hear it against the windows? Nonsense; you can't
be asleep with such a shower as that. Do you <emph>hear</emph>
it, I say? Oh, you <emph>do</emph> hear it, do you? Well, that's
a pretty flood, I think, to last six weeks, and no stirring
<pb n='568'/><anchor id='Pg568'/>
all this time out of the house. Poh! don't think
to fool <emph>me</emph>, Caudle: <emph>he</emph> return the umbrella! As if
any body ever <emph>did</emph> return an umbrella! There&mdash;do
you hear it? Worse and worse! Cats and dogs for
six weeks&mdash;always six weeks&mdash;and no umbrella!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>I should like to know how the children are to go
to school, to-morrow. They shan't go through <emph>such</emph>
weather, <emph>that</emph> I'm determined. No; they shall stay
at home, and never learn any thing, sooner than go
and get wet. And when they grow up, I wonder
who they'll have to thank for knowing nothing.
People who can't feel for their children ought never
to <emph>be</emph> fathers.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But <emph>I</emph> know why you lent the umbrella&mdash;<emph>I</emph> know,
very well. I was going out to tea to mother's, to-morrow;&mdash;you
<emph>knew</emph> that very well; and you did it
on purpose. Don't tell me; <emph>I</emph> know; you don't want
me to go, and take every mean advantage to hinder
me. But don't you think it, Caudle! No; if it
comes down in buckets-full, I'll go all the more: I
will; and what's more, I'll walk every step of the
way; and you know that will give me my death,</q>
&amp;c., &amp;c., &amp;c.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The satire of the following lines, upon that species
of sentimental song-writing which prevailed a few
years ago to a much greater extent than at present,
is somewhat broad; but any one who remembers the
feeble and affected trash which has hitherto been set
to music, and sung by lachrymose young ladies and
gentlemen, will not consider it one whit too much
deserved.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<p>
I.
</p>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>My lute hath only one sad tone,</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>It hath a mournful twang:</l>
<l>Its other strings are cracked and gone,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>By one unlucky bang!</l>
<l>You ask me why I don't restore</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Its early sweetness, and fresh cord it;</l>
<l>Oh, no! I'll play on it no more!</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Between ourselves&mdash;I can't afford it!</l>
</lg>

<p>
II.
</p>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>You tell me that my light guitar</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Is now as silent as the grave;</l>
<l>That on it now I play no bar,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Though <emph>once</emph> it thrill'd with many a stave</l>
<l>Alas! to strike it once again,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>More power than I possess requires;</l>
<l>The effort would be worse than vain&mdash;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>My light guitar has lost its wires!</l>
</lg>

<p>
III.
</p>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>My heart, my lute, my light guitar,</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>All broken as they be,</l>
<l>As like unto each other are,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>As little pea to pea.</l>
<l>Come, heart; come, lute, guitar, and all,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>In one lament ye all are blended!</l>
<l>Hang on your nails against the wall&mdash;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend='post'>I can't afford to get you mended!</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

<p>
Just fancy this touching song sung by a <q>nice
young man,</q> with all the modern <q>shakes</q> and
<foreign rend='italic'>affetuoso</foreign>
accompaniments, and you will <q>realize</q> a fair
hit at what was not long since a fashionable species
of English ballad music.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
<q>Speaking of music,</q> by-the-by, we are reminded
of rather a sharp reply made by a celebrated nobleman
in England to an enterprising musical gentleman,
who was a good deal of an enthusiast in the
art. <q>I have waited upon you, my lord, to ask for
your subscription of twenty guineas to the series of
six Italian concerts, to be given at &mdash;&mdash;'s Rooms.
Knowing your lordship to be an admirer of the
sweet&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You've been misinformed, sir. I am <emph>not</emph> much
of an admirer of the school of <q>difficult music:</q> on
the contrary, I often wish, with Dr. Johnson, that
<q>it was not only <emph>difficult</emph>, but <emph>impossible</emph>.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But as a nobleman, as a public man, your lordship
can not be insensible to the value of your honored
name upon the subscription-list. Your eminent
brother, the greatest of London's prelates, the most
gifted, your honorable brother subscribed fifty guineas.
Here, sir, is his signature upon this very paper
which I hold in my hand.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well,</q> replied <q>his lordship,</q> <q>I have no hesitation
to state, that if I were as <emph>deaf</emph> as he is, I wouldn't
mind subscribing myself! He's as deaf as a post, or
as a dumb adder; and can not hear the sounds of your
Italian charmers, charm they never so loudly. I have
no such good luck.</q>
</p>

<p>
Thinking, doubtless, that trying to secure <q>his
lordship's</q> patronage under such circumstances, and
with such opinions, involved the pursuit of musical
subscriptions <q>under difficulties,</q> the importunate
solicitor, with a succession of low bows, left the
apartment; and as he left <q>the presence</q> he <emph>thought</emph>
he heard a low, chuckling laugh, but it didn't affect
<emph>his</emph> risibles!
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
What a life-like <q>picture in little</q> is this by
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Hood</hi> of the <q>torrent of rugged humanity</q> that set
toward an English poor-house, at sound of <hi rend='italic'>The Work
House Clock</hi>! Remark, too, reader, the beautiful
sentiment with which the extract closes:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>There's a murmur in the air,</q></l>
<l>And noise in every street;</l>
<l>The murmur of many tongues,</l>
<l>The noise of many feet.</l>
<l>While round the work-house door</l>
<l>The laboring classes flock;</l>
<l>For why? the Overseer of the P&mdash;&mdash;</l>
<l>Is setting the work-house clock.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Who does not hear the tramp</q></l>
<l>Of thousands speeding along,</l>
<l>Of either sex, and various stamp</l>
<l>Sickly, crippled, and strong;</l>
<l>Walking, limping, creeping,</l>
<l>From court and alley and lane,</l>
<l>But all in one direction sweeping,</l>
<l>Like rivers that seek the main?</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Who does not see them sally</q></l>
<l>From mill, and garret, and room,</l>
<l>In lane, and court, and alley,</l>
<l>From homes in Poverty's lowest valley</l>
<l>Furnished with shuttle and loom:</l>
<l>Poor slaves of Civilization's galley&mdash;</l>
<l>And in the road and footways sally,</l>
<l>As if for the Day of Doom?</l>
<l>Some, of hardly human form,</l>
<l>Stunted, crooked, and crippled by toil,</l>
<l>Dingy with smoke, and rust, and oil,</l>
<l>And smirched beside with vicious toil,</l>
<l>Clustering, mustering, all in a swarm,</l>
<l>Father, mother, and care-full child,</l>
<l><emph>Looking as if it had never smiled</emph>;</l>
<l>The seamstress lean, and weary, and wan,</l>
<l>With only the <emph>ghosts</emph> of garments on;</l>
<l>The weaver, her sallow neighbor,</l>
<l>The grim and sooty artisan;</l>
<l>Every soul&mdash;child, woman, or man,</l>
<l>Who lives&mdash;or dies&mdash;by labor!</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>At last, before that door</q></l>
<l>That bears so many a knock,</l>
<l>Ere ever it opens to Sick or Poor,</l>
<l>Like sheep they huddle and flock&mdash;</l>
<l>And would that all the Good and Wise</l>
<l>Could see the million of hollow eyes,</l>
<l>With a gleam derived from Hope and the skies</l>
<l>Upturned to the Work-House Clock!</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Oh! that the Parish Powers,</q></l>
<l>Who regulate Labor's hours,</l>
<pb n='569'/><anchor id='Pg569'/>
<l>The daily amount of human trial,</l>
<l>Weariness, pain, and self-denial,</l>
<l>Would turn from the artificial dial</l>
<l>That striketh ten or eleven,</l>
<l>And go, for once, by that older one</l>
<l>That stands in the light of Nature's sun,</l>
<l><q rend='post'>And takes its time from Heaven!</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
There is something very amusing to us in this
passage, which we find copied upon a dingy slip of
paper in the <q>Drawer,</q> descriptive of the <q>sweet
uses</q> to which sugar is put in <q>Gaul's gay capital:</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Here is the whole animal creation in paste, and
history and all the fine arts in <foreign rend='italic'>sucre d'orge</foreign>. You can
buy an epigram in dough, and a pun in a soda-biscuit;
a <q>Constitutional Charter,</q> all in jumbles, and a
<q>Revolution</q> just out of the frying-pan. Or, if you
love American history, here is a United States frigate,
two inches long, and a big-bellied commodore
bombarding Paris with <q>shin-plasters;</q> and the
French women and children stretching out their
little arms, three-quarters of an inch long, toward
Heaven, and supplicating the mercy of the victors,
in molasses candy. You see also a General Jackson,
with the head of a hickory-nut, with a purse, I
believe, of <q>Carroway Comfits,</q> and in a great hurry,
pouring out the <q>twenty-five millions,</q> a king, a
queen, and a royal family, all of plaster of Paris. If
you step into one of these stores, you will see a gentleman
in mustaches, whom you will mistake for a
nobleman, who will ask you to <q>give yourself the
pain to sit down,</q> and he will put you up a paper of
bon-bons, and he will send it home for you, and he
will accompany you to the door, and he will have
<q>the honor to salute you</q>&mdash;all for four sous!</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Few things are more amusing, to one who looks at
the matter with attention, than the literary style of
the Chinese. How inseparable it is, from the exalted
opinions which <q>John Chinaman</q> holds of the <q>Celestial
Flowery Land!</q> Every body, all nations,
away from the Celestial Empire, are <q>Outside Barbarians.</q>
And this feeling is not assumed; it is innate
and real in the hearts of the Chinese, both rulers
and ruled. A friend once showed us a map of
China. China, by that map, <emph>occupied all the world</emph>,
with the exception of two small spots on the very
outer edge, which represented Great Britain and the
United States! These <q>places</q> they had <emph>heard</emph> of, in
the way of trade for teas, silks, etc., with the empire.
</p>

<p>
We once heard a friend describe a Chinese <q>chop,</q>
on government-order. He was an officer on board
a United States vessel, then lying in the harbor
at Hong-kong. A great commotion was observable
among the crowds of boats upon the water, when
presently a gayly-decorated junk was observed approaching
the vessel. She arrived at the side, when
a pompous little official, with the air of an emperor,
attended by two or three mandarins, was received on
deck. He looked the personification of Imperial Dignity.
He carried a short truncheon in his right hand,
like Richard the Third; and with his <q>tail</q> (his
own, and his followers') he strode toward the quarter-deck.
Arrived there, he unrolled his truncheon, a
small square sheet of white parchment, bearing a
single red character, and held it up to the astonished
gaze of the officers and crew! This was a <q><hi rend='italic'>Vermilion
Edict</hi>,</q> that terrible thing, so often fulminated
by Commissioner Lin against the <q>Outside Barbarians;</q>
and that single red character was, <q><emph>Go away!</emph></q>
After the exhibition of which, it was impossible (of
course!) to stay in the Chinese waters. Having
shown this, the great Mandarin and his <q>tail</q> departed
in solemn silence over the side of the ship.
Of these <q>special edicts,</q> especially those touching
the expulsion of the <q>smoking mud,</q> or opium, from
the <q>Central Kingdom,</q> we may give the readers of
the <q>Drawer</q> specimens in some subsequent number;
there happening to be in that miscellaneous receptacle
quite a collection of authentic Chinese State
Papers, with translations, notes, and introductions,
by a distinguished American savant, long a resident
in the <q>Celestial Flowery Land.</q>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Literary Notices.</head>

<p>
One of the most welcome reprints of the season is
Harper and Brothers' edition of the <hi rend='italic'>Life and Works
of Robert Burns</hi>, edited by <hi rend='smallcaps'>Robert Chambers</hi>, in
four handsome duodecimos. This is a tribute of exceeding
value to the memory of the great Peasant
Bard, disclosing many new facts in his history, and
enhancing the interest of his writings by the admirable
order of their arrangement. These are interwoven
with the biography in chronological succession,
and thus made to illustrate the poetical experience
and mental development of Burns, while they receive
a fresh and more striking significance from
their connection with the circumstances and impressions
that led to their production. The present
editor was induced to undertake the grateful task of
preparing the works of his gifted countryman for the
press by his profound interest in the subject, and by
his perceptions of the short-comings of previous laborers
in the same field. Dr. Currie, who was the
pioneer of subsequent biographical attempts, entered
upon his task with too great deference to public
opinion, which at that time visited the errors of
Bums with excessive severity of retribution. Hence
the caution and timidity which characterized his
memoir, converting it into a feeble apology for its
subject, instead of a frank and manly narration of
his life. Lockhart's biography of Burns is a spirited
and graceful production, inspired with a genuine
Scottish feeling, written in a tone of impartial kindness,
and containing many just, and forcible criticisms.
It is, however, disfigured with numerous
inaccuracies, and brings forward few details to increase
our previous knowledge of the subject. Nor
can the genial labors of Allan Cunningham be regarded
as making further biographical efforts superfluous.
</p>

<p>
Mr. Chambers has availed himself in this edition
of ample materials for a life of the poet, including
the reminiscences of his youngest sister, who was
still living at the date of the composition of these
volumes. Devoted to the memory of Burns with the
enthusiasm of national pride, a zealous student of
his glorious poetry, and a warm admirer of the originality
and nobleness of his character, in spite of its
glaring and painful defects, he has erected a beautiful
and permanent monument to his fame, which will
survive the recollections of his errors and infirmities.
We think this edition must speedily take the place
of all others now extant. The notes in illustration
of the biography, are copious and valuable. No one
can read the poems, in connection with the lucid
<pb n='570'/><anchor id='Pg570'/>
memoir, without feeling a new glow of admiration
for the immortal bard, <q>whose life was one long
hardship, relieved by little besides an ungainful excitement&mdash;who
during his singularly hapless career,
did, on the whole, well maintain the grand battle of
Will against Circumstances&mdash;who, strange to say, in
the midst of his own poverty conferred an imperishable
gift on mankind&mdash;an Undying Voice for their
finest sympathies&mdash;stamping, at the same time, more
deeply, the divine doctrine of the fundamental equality
of consideration due to all men.</q>
</p>

<p>
A new edition of <hi rend='italic'>The Corner Stone</hi>, by <hi rend='smallcaps'>Jacob
Abbott</hi>, with large additions and improvements, is
issued in a very neat and convenient volume by
Harper and Brothers. The series of works devoted
to practical religion, of which this volume is a part,
have been received with such general favor by the
Christian public, as to make quite unnecessary any
elaborate comments on their merits. Their peculiar
power consists in their freedom from speculative
subtleties, their luminous exhibition of the essential
evangelical doctrines, their spirit of fervent and elevated
piety, their wise adaptation to the workings of
the human heart, and their affluence, aptness, and
beauty of illustration. Mr. Abbott is eminently a
writer for the masses. His practical common sense
never forsakes him. He is never enticed from his
firm footing amidst substantial realities. The gay
regions of cloud-land present no temptations to his
well disciplined imagination. He must always be
a favorite with the people; and his moral influence
is as salutary as it is extensive.
</p>

<p>
Blanchard and Lea have issued a reprint of
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Browne's</hi> <hi rend='italic'>History of
Classical Literature</hi>. The
present volume is devoted to the literature of Greece,
and comprises an historical notice of her intellectual
development, with a complete survey of the writers
who have made her history immortal. Without any
offensive parade of erudition, it betrays the signs of
extensive research, accurate learning, and a polished
taste. As a popular work on ancient literature,
adapted no less to the general reader than to the
profound student, it possesses an unmistakable merit,
and will challenge a wide circulation in this country.
</p>

<p>
We have also from the same publishers a collection
of original <hi rend='italic'>Essays on Life, Sleep, Pain</hi>, and other
similar subjects, by <hi rend='smallcaps'>Samuel H. Dixon</hi>, M.D. They
present a variety of curious facts in the natural
history of man, which are not only full of suggestion
to the scientific student, but are adapted to popular
comprehension, and form a pleasant and readable
volume.
</p>

<p>
George P. Putnam has republished <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sir Francis
Head's</hi> lively volume entitled <hi rend='italic'>A Faggot of French
Sticks</hi>, describing what he saw in Paris in 1851.
The talkative baronet discourses in this work with
his usual sparkling volubility. Superficial, shallow,
good-natured; often commonplace though seldom tedious;
brisk and effervescent as ginger-beer, it rattles
cheerfully over the Paris pavements, and leaves quite
a vivid impression of the gayeties and gravities of the
French metropolis.
</p>

<p>
James Munroe and Co., Boston, have issued the third volume
of <hi rend='italic'>Shakspeare</hi>, edited by Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>H. N.
Hudson</hi>, whose racy introductions and notes are far
superior to the common run of critical commentaries&mdash;acute,
profound, imbued with the spirit of the
Shakspearian age, and expressed in a style of quaint,
though vigorous antiqueness.
</p>

<p>
The same publishers have issued a Poem, called the
<hi rend='italic'>Greek Girl</hi>, by <hi rend='smallcaps'>James Wright Simmons</hi>,
thickly sprinkled with affectation on a ground-work of originality;&mdash;a
charming story, by the author of the
<q>Dream-Chintz,</q> entitled <hi rend='italic'>The House on the Rock</hi>;&mdash;and
a reprint of <hi rend='italic'>Companions of My Solitude</hi>, one of
the series of chaste, refined, and quiet meditative
essays by the author of <q>Friends in Council.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Sorcery and Magic</hi> is the title of a collection of
narratives by <hi rend='smallcaps'>Thomas Wright</hi>, showing the influence
which superstition once exercised on the history
of the world. The work is compiled with good
judgment from authentic sources, and without attempting
to give any philosophical explanation of the
marvelous facts which it describes, leaves them to
the reflection and common sense of the reader. It
is issued by Redfield in the elegant and tasteful
style by which his recent publications may be identified.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Ravenscliffe</hi>, by Mrs.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Marsh</hi>, and <hi rend='italic'>The Head of the
Family</hi>, by the author of <q>Olive,</q> and <q>The Oglevies,</q>
have attained a brilliant popularity among the
leading English novels of the season, and will be
welcome to the American public in Harper's <q>Library
of Select Novels,</q> in which they are just reprinted.
</p>

<p>
Miss <hi rend='smallcaps'>Mitford's</hi>
<hi rend='italic'>Recollections of a Literary Life</hi>
(republished by Harper and Brothers) will be found
to possess peculiar interest for the American reader.
In addition to a rich store of delightful personal reminiscences,
genial and graceful criticisms on old English
authors, as well as on contemporary celebrities,
and copious selections from their choicest productions,
Miss Mitford presents several agreeable
sketches of American authors and other distinguished
men, including Daniel Webster, Halleck, Hawthorne,
Whittier, Wendell Holmes, and so forth. She shows
a sincere love for this country, and a cordial appreciation
of its institutions and its literature. The
whole book is remarkable for its frank simplicity of
narrative, its enthusiasm for good letters, its fine
characterizations of eminent people, and its careless
beauties of style. A more truly delightful volume
has not been on our table for many a day.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Mr. <hi rend='smallcaps'>T. Hudson Turner</hi>, one of the ablest of
British archologists, and a contributor to the <hi rend='italic'>Athenum,</hi>
died of consumption, on the 14th of January,
at the age of thirty-seven.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The <hi rend='italic'>Westminster Review</hi> has been excluded from
the Select Subscription Library of Edinburgh, on
the special ground of its heresy!
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Among the new works in the press the following
are announced by Mr. Bentley: <q>History of the
American Revolution,</q> by <hi rend='smallcaps'>George Bancroft</hi>; the
<q>Memoirs of the Marquis of Rockingham,</q> by the
Earl of <hi rend='smallcaps'>Albemarle</hi>; <q>Letters of Gray the Poet,</q>
edited from original MSS., with Notes by the Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>J.
Mitford</hi>; <q>Memoirs of the Court of George III.,</q>
by <hi rend='smallcaps'>J. Heneage Jesse</hi>; <q>Memoirs of Sarah Margaret
Fuller, the Marchioness of Ossola,</q> edited by R. W.
Emerson and <hi rend='smallcaps'>W. H. Channing</hi>; <q>History of
the Governors-General of India,</q> by Mr. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Kaye</hi>, author
of <q>The History of the Affghan War,</q> and various
other works of general interest.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Jules Benedict</hi>, the companion of the Swedish
Nightingale in America, has entered into an arrangement
with a London publisher to issue his complete
account of Jenny Lind's tour in America.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
It is said that Mr. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Macaulay</hi> has delayed the
publication of the third and fourth volumes of his
<hi rend='italic'>History of England</hi> in consequence of his having
<pb n='571'/><anchor id='Pg571'/>
obtained some new information relating to King
William the Third. King William, it is asserted,
figures as the chief personage in the narrative&mdash;and
the greatest stress is laid on his conduct subsequently
to the Revolution.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Robert Browning</hi>, in his Italian sojourn, has
been interesting himself biographically in <hi rend='smallcaps'>Percy
Bysshe Shelley</hi>; and the result of this inquiry
we are to have shortly in some unpublished letters
of <hi rend='smallcaps'>Shelley's</hi>, with
a preface by <hi rend='smallcaps'>Browning</hi> himself.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Mr. W. Cramp</hi> is preparing a critical analysis of
the <hi rend='italic'>Private Letters</hi> of Junius to Woodfall, to be added
to his new edition of Junius. The private correspondence
with Woodfall is a field of inquiry that
hitherto has not been sufficiently explored. Mr.
Cramp is pursuing his investigation on the plan of
the essays on the letters of <q>Atticus Lucius,</q> and
those in defense of the Duke of Portland. This inquiry
promises to reveal many additional facts in
proof of Mr. Cramp's hypothesis that Lord Chesterfield
was Junius.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Major <hi rend='smallcaps'>Cunningham</hi> has completed his work on
<hi rend='italic'>The Bhilsa Topes, or Budhist Monuments of Central
India</hi>&mdash;and the Governor General of India has sent
the manuscript home to the Court of Directors,
strongly recommending the court to publish it at
their own expense.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Dr. William Freund</hi>, the philologist, is engaged
in constructing a German-English and English-German
Dictionary on his new system. He hopes to
complete the work in the course of next year.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The first volume has appeared of a collected edition
of the <hi rend='italic'>Poetical and Dramatic Works of Sir Edward
Bulwer Lytton</hi>, containing <q>The New Timon,</q>
<q>Constance,</q> <q>Milton,</q> <q>The Narrative Lyrics,</q>
and other pieces. Of the poems in this volume public
opinion has already expressed its estimate, and it
is sufficient for us to notice their republication in
convenient and elegant form. In a note to the passage
in <q>The New Timon</q> referring to the late Sir
Robert Peel, the author says <q>he will find another
occasion to attempt, so far as his opinions on the one
hand, and his reverence on the other, will permit&mdash;to
convey a juster idea of Sir Robert Peel's defects
or merits, perhaps as a statesman, at least as an orator.</q>
Very singular are the lines in the poem,
written before the fatal accident:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Now on his humble, but his faithful steed,</q></l>
<l>Sir Robert rides&mdash;he never rides at speed&mdash;</l>
<l>Careful his seat, and circumspect his gaze,</l>
<l>And still the cautious trot the cautious mind betrays.</l>
<l>Wise is thy head! how stout soe'er his back,</l>
<l><q rend='post'>Thy weight has oft proved fatal to thy hack!</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

<p>
The generous and graceful turn given to this in the
foot-note, is such as one might expect from Sir E.
Bulwer Lytton. In another series we have the second
part of <hi rend='italic'>Ernest Maltravers</hi>, or, as the other title
bears, <hi rend='italic'>Alice, or The Mysteries</hi>. In this work of allegorical
fiction, with the author's usual power and
felicity of narrative, there is mingled a philosophical
purpose; and in a new preface Sir Edward Bulwer
Lytton ascribes to it, above all his other works,
<q>such merit as may be thought to belong to harmony
between a premeditated conception, and the various
incidents and agencies employed in the development
of plot.</q> <q>Ernest Maltravers,</q> the type of Genius
or intellectual ambition, is after long and erring alienation
happily united to <q>Alice,</q> the type of Nature,
nature now elevated and idealized.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
A new novel, by the gifted author of <q>Olive,</q> and
the <q>Ogilvies,</q> entitled <q>The Head of the Family,</q>
is spoken of in terms of warm admiration by the
London press. The <hi rend='italic'>Weekly News</hi> remarks, <q>The
charm of idyllic simplicity will be found in every
page of the book, imparting an interest to it which
rises very far above the ordinary feeling evoked by
novel reading. So much truthfulness, so much force,
combined with so much delicacy of characterization,
we have rarely met with; and on these grounds
alone, irrespective of literary merit, we are inclined
to credit the work with a lasting popularity.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The same journal has a highly favorable notice of
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Lossing's</hi>
<hi rend='italic'>Pictorial Field Book of the Revolution</hi>,
from which we take the following passage: <q>In reviewing
the recent volumes of Lord Mahon's History
that treat of the American war, we expressed an
opinion that the subject was one to which no American
writer had done justice. The work now before
us appears (so far as we may judge from its first
moiety), to be the best contribution that any citizen
of the United States has yet made to a correct knowledge
of the circumstances of their war of independence.
It is not a regular history; and the blank in
transatlantic literature, to which we have referred,
remains yet to be supplied. But Mr. Lossing has
given us a volume full of valuable information respecting
the great scenes and the leading men of the
war. And the profuseness with which he has illustrated
his narrative with military plans, with portraits
of statesmen and commanders, and with sketches
of celebrated localities, gives great interest and value
to these pages.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
With all its stubborn John Bullism, the London
<hi rend='italic'>Athenum</hi> is compelled to pay a flattering tribute to
the literary merits of our distinguished countryman,
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Nathaniel Hawthorne</hi>: <q>Among the sterling
pleasures which, though few, make rich amends for
the many grievances and misconstructions that await
honest critics, there is none so great as the discovery
and support of distant and unknown genius. Such
pleasure the <hi rend='italic'>Athenum</hi> may fairly claim in the case
of Mr. Hawthorne. Like all men so richly and specially
gifted, he has at last found his public&mdash;he is
at last looked to, and listened for: but it is fifteen
years since we began to follow him in the American
periodicals, and to give him credit for the power and
the originality which have since borne such ripe fruit
in 'The Scarlet Letter' and 'The House of the
Seven Gables.' Little less agreeable is it to see
that acceptance, after long years of waiting, seems
not to have soured the temper of the writer&mdash;not to
have encouraged him into conceit&mdash;not to have discouraged
him into slovenliness. Like a real artist
Mr. Hawthorne gives out no slightly planned nor
carelessly finished literary handiwork.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Among the list of passengers who perished by fire
on board the Amazon steamer, we find the name of
Mr. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Eliot Warburton</hi>, the author of <q>The Crescent
and the Cross,</q> a book of Eastern travel&mdash;<q>Prince
Rupert and the Cavaliers</q>&mdash;and the novels
<q>Reginald Hastings</q> and <q>Darien.</q> Mr. Warburton,
says a correspondent of the <hi rend='italic'>Times</hi>, had been deputed
by the Atlantic and Pacific Junction Company
to come to a friendly understanding with the tribes
of Indians who inhabit the Isthmus of Darien: it
was also his intention to make himself perfectly acquainted
<pb n='572'/><anchor id='Pg572'/>
with every part of those districts, and with
whatever referred to their topography, climate, and
resources. <q>To <hi rend='italic'>Darien</hi>, with the date of 1852 upon
its title-page,</q> says the <hi rend='italic'>London Examiner</hi>, <q>the fate
of its author will communicate a melancholy interest.
The theme of the book is a fine one. Its fault consists
chiefly in the fact that the writer was not born
to be a novelist. Yet, full as it is of eloquent writing,
and enlivened as it is with that light of true
genius, which raises even the waste work of a good
writer above the common twaddle of a circulating
library, <hi rend='italic'>Darien</hi> may, for its own sake, and apart from
all external interest, claim many readers. External
interest, however, attaches to the book in a most peculiar
manner. Superstitious men&mdash;perhaps also
some men not superstitious&mdash;might say that there
was a strange shadow of the future cast upon its
writer's mind. It did not fall strictly within the
limits of a tale of the Scotch colonization of Darien,
to relate perils by sea; yet again and again are such
perils recurred to in these volumes, and the terrible imagination
of a <hi rend='italic'>ship on fire</hi> is twice repeated in them.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>M. Thiers</hi>,
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Alexandre Dumas</hi>, <hi rend='smallcaps'>Victor Hugo</hi>,
several newspaper editors, and other literary men of
France, are now at Brussels. Thiers is said to be
working hard at his <hi rend='italic'>History of the Consulate and of
the Empire</hi>, and Hugo is represented to entertain
the intention of again seriously returning to literary
pursuits, in which, one would think, he must find
more pleasure, as well as more fame and profit, than
in the stormy arena of politics. Dumas, who works
like a cart-horse, and who, as ever, is in want of
money, has, in addition to his numerous pending engagements
at Paris, undertaken to revise, for a Belgian
publishing firm, the <hi rend='italic'>Memoirs of his Life</hi>, now in
course of publication in the Paris <hi rend='italic'>Presse</hi>; and he is
to add to them all the passages suppressed by Louis
Bonaparte's censors. Another new work is announced
by Dumas, called <hi rend='italic'>Byron</hi>, in which we are promised
the biography, love adventures, journeys, and anecdotic
history of the great poet.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>M. de Lamartine</hi> has resigned the editorship, or,
as he called it, the directorship, of the daily newspaper
on which he was engaged at a large salary,
and in which he published his opinions on political
events. He has also put an end to his monthly literary
periodical, called <hi rend='italic'>Les Foyers du Peuple</hi>; no
great loss, by the way, seeing that it was only a jumble
of quotations from his unpublished works, placed
together without rhyme or reason; and, finally, he
has dropped the bi-monthly magazine, in which he
figured as the <hi rend='italic'>Counsellor of the People</hi>. But he promises,
notwithstanding the sickness under which he
is laboring, to bring out a serious literary periodical,
as soon as the laws on the press shall be promulgated.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Among the novelties that are forthcoming, there is
one which promises to be very important, called
<hi rend='italic'>Lord Palmerston&mdash;L'Angleterre et le Continent</hi>, by
Count <hi rend='smallcaps'>Ficquelmont</hi>, formerly Austrian Ambassador
at Constantinople and St. Petersburg, where he had
occasion to experience something of Lord <hi rend='smallcaps'>Palmerston's</hi>
diplomacy. It is, we are told, a vigorous attack
on English policy.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>La Vrit</hi>, a pamphlet containing the true history
of the <foreign rend='italic'>coup d'tat</foreign>, is announced in London, with the
production of authentic documents which could not
get printed in France. This <foreign rend='italic'>coup d'tat</foreign> has set all
servile pens at work. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Mayer</hi>
announces a <hi rend='italic'>Histoire
du 2 Decembre</hi>; <hi rend='smallcaps'>Cesena</hi>, a
<hi rend='italic'>Histoire d'un Coup d'tat</hi>;
and <hi rend='smallcaps'>Romieu</hi>, the famous trumpeter of the Csars&mdash;Romieu,
who in his <hi rend='italic'>Spectre Rouge</hi> exclaimed, <q>I
shall not regret having lived in these wretched times
if I can only see a good castigation inflicted on <hi rend='italic'>the
mob</hi>, that stupid and corrupt beast which I have always
held in horror.</q> Romieu has had his prediction
fulfilled, and he, too, announces a History of the
event.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
No ruler of France, in modern times, has shown
such disregard to literary men as Louis Napoleon.
King Louis XVIII. patronized them royally; Charles
X. pensioned them liberally; Louis Philippe gave
them titles and decorations freely, and was glad to
have them at his receptions; the princes, his sons,
showed them all possible attention; but during the
whole time Louis Bonaparte has been in power he
has not only taken no official notice of them, but has
not even had the decent civility to send them invitations
to his <foreign rend='italic'>soires</foreign>. By this conduct, as much,
perhaps, as by his political proceedings, he has made
nearly the whole literary body hostile to him: and,
singular to state, the most eminent writers of the
country&mdash;Lamartine, Lamennais, Beranger, Hugo,
Janin, Sue, Dumas, Thiers&mdash;are personally and politically
among his bitterest adversaries.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Madame <hi rend='smallcaps'>George Sand</hi> is in retirement in the
province of Berry, and is at present engaged in preparing
<q>Memoirs of her Life,</q> for publication.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The second division of the third volume of Alexander
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Von Humboldt's</hi>
<hi rend='italic'>Cosmos</hi> has just issued from
the German press. The new chapters treat of the
circuits of the sun, planets, and comets, of the zodiacal
lights, meteors, and meteoric stones. The uranological
portion of the physical description of the
universe is now completed. The veteran philosopher
has already made good way into the fourth volume
of his great work.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Herr Stargardt</hi>, a bookseller at Stuttgardt, has
lately made a valuable acquisition by purchasing the
whole of Schiller's library, with his autograph notes
to the various books.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The <hi rend='italic'>Icelandic-English Dictionary</hi> of the late distinguished
philologist, Mr. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Cleasby</hi>, is now nearly
ready for the press; Mr. Cleasby's MS. collections
having been arranged and copied for this purpose by
another distinguished Icelandic scholar, Hector Konrad
Gislason, author of the <q>Danish-Icelandic Lexicon.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The Swedish Academy has elected Professor <hi rend='smallcaps'>Hagberg</hi>,
the translator of Shakspeare, in place of the
deceased Bishop Kullberg. The great prize of the
academy has this year been conferred on a poem entitled
<q>Regnar Lodbrok,</q> written by Thekla Kns,
a daughter of the late Professor Kns.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Attention is beginning to be paid in Spain to the
popular literature of England, and it is not improbable
that it may get into as high favor as that of France.
Already Dickens's <q>David Copperfield</q> and Lady
Fullerton's <q>Grantley Manor</q> have been translated,
and are being published in the <hi rend='italic'>folletinos</hi> of two of the
newspapers.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='573'/><anchor id='Pg573'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>A Leaf from Punch.</head>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p573.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <head>France Is Tranquil.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Signs Of The Times.
</p>

<p>
When a young lady <q>has a very bad cold,
or else she'd be delighted,</q> &amp;c., it is rather
a dangerous sign that, when once she sits down
to the piano, she will probably not leave it for
the remainder of the evening.
</p>

<p>
When a gentleman loses his temper in talking,
it is a tolerably correct sign that he is getting
<q>the worst of the argument.</q>
</p>

<p>
When you see the servant carrying under her
apron a bottle of soda-water into a house, you
may at once seize it as a sure sign that some one
has been drinking over-night.
</p>

<p>
When the children are always up in the
nursery, you may construe it into a sure sign
that the mother does not care much about
them.
</p>

<p>
When a young couple are seen visiting a
<q>Cheap Furniture Mart,</q> you may interpret it
into a pretty fair sign that the <q>happy day</q> is
not far distant.
</p>

<p>
When the boys begin to tear up their books,
it is a sign the holidays are about to commence.
</p>

<pb n='574'/><anchor id='Pg574'/>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p574a.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <head>The Road To Ruin.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p574b.png' rend='width: 40%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Cannon.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
The accompanying is a
good sketch of the <hi rend='smallcaps'>Patent
Street-sweeping Machine</hi>
lately introduced in Paris.
The sketch was taken on the
spot (represented at A). The
want of firmness in the lines
of the drawing would seem
to indicate some tremor in
the nerves of the artist. The
invention is not entirely new,
having been used in the same
city by the uncle of the present
owner. The result of
the late experiment is represented
to have been quite
satisfactory. The Constitution,
which it was feared
would interfere with its operation,
was removed by it
without any difficulty, so that
no traces of it were left.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='575'/><anchor id='Pg274'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fashions for March.</head>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p575.png' rend='width: 40%'>
    <head>Figure 1.&mdash;Full Dress for Ball or Evening Party.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Figure 1.&mdash;Hair in puffed bands, raised, ornamented
with bunches of wild poppies, with silver
foliage&mdash;coral necklace and waistcoat buttons&mdash;waistcoat
open, of white satin, embroidered in front with
silver and white jet. Pardessus of white gauze, bordered
with a silver band, and embroidered with silver
spots. This pardessus fits quite close, being hollowed
out at the seam under the arm. Back flat;
great round skirt without plaits, sitting well over the
hips. Sleeves short, and turned up <hi rend='italic'> la Mousquetaire</hi>:
the silver band is about a quarter of an inch
from the edge, and is itself an inch wide. The skirt
is white gauze, and very ample; its only ornaments
are three silver bands starting from the middle and
diverging toward the bottom. The space between
them is covered with silver spots. Pantaloons of
plain white gauze, not very full, are fastened round
the ankle with a silver band. The foot is shod with
a small white silk <hi rend='italic'>bottine</hi>, laced up at the instep, from
the top almost to the toe. The lacing is crossed.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p576a.png' rend='width: 40%'>
    <head>Figure 2.&mdash;Young Lady's Toilet.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Fig. 2.&mdash;Bonnet of plain silk or satin, with a fringe
at the edge of the brim. A broad plaid ribbon is laid
<pb n='576'/><anchor id='Pg576'/>
like a <hi rend='italic'>fanchon</hi> over the brim and crown. Curtain
plaid cross-wise; plaid strings; the brim is forward
at the top, and falls off very much at the sides; no
trimming inside. Waistcoat of white quilting, open
at the top, with small enamel buttons; two small gussets
at the waist; lappets rounded; a double row of
stitches all around. The muslin chemisette is composed
of two rows, raised at the neck, of a front piece
in small plaits, and two lapels, embroidered and festooned,
which turn back on the waistcoat and vest.
The sleeves are plaited small, with embroidered
wristbands and cuffs. The vest is velvet; it is high,
and opens straight down, but is not tight in the foreparts:
it is hollowed out at the seams of the side and
back, so as to sit close behind and on the hips. The
foreparts form a hollow point at the side. The sleeves,
half-large, are cut in a point. A broad <hi rend='italic'>galloon</hi> edges
the vest and the ends of sleeves. The lining is white
satin. Skirt of Scotch poplin. Narrow plaid cravat.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p576b.png' rend='width: 30%'>
    <head>Figure 3.&mdash;Morning Toilet.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Fig.</hi> 3.&mdash;Drawn bonnet, satin and crape; the edge
crape for a width of three inches. The crape is doubled
over a wire covered with satin, which is seen
through the crape. The rest of the brim is formed
of five drawings of satin. The crown, satin, is round,
and divided into four parts separated by three small
<hi rend='italic'>bouillonns</hi>; one, starting from the middle, goes over
the head to the curtain; the two others are at the
sides. The curtain is satin at top, and crape at bottom.
Inside the brim, at the lower edges, are bunches
of ribbon from which hang loops of jet.
</p>

<p>
Dress of gros d'Ecosse. Body with round lappet
Sleeves tight at top, open at bottom. Skirt with flat
plaits on the hips, so as not to spoil the sit of the
lappet. The body all round, and the front of the skirt
are ornamented with crape <hi rend='italic'>bouillonns</hi> sprinkled with
jet beads. Each of the beads seems to fasten the
gathers of the <hi rend='italic'>bouillonn</hi>. Collar and under-sleeves
of white muslin festooned.
</p>

<p>
The waistcoat is in higher favor than ever. There
are morning waistcoats, visiting waistcoats, walking
waistcoats. The first are made of white quilting,
simply, their only richness being in the trimming;
nothing can be prettier than the malachite buttons
hanging at the end of a small chain. There are some
waistcoats of white or pink watered silk, ornamented
with a very small lace ruff, which is continued down
the front as a frill; there are others of silk, with
needlework embroidery round the edges, and sprinkled
with flowers; others again of white satin with gold
figures. As a great novelty, we may mention the
<hi rend='italic'>Molire</hi> waistcoats, buttoning up to the neck without
collars, provided with little pockets, coming down
low and ending square below the waist, where the
two sides begin to part. In order to give the <hi rend='italic'>Molire</hi>
waistcoat the really fashionable stamp, it must have
a <hi rend='italic'>godrooned</hi> collar, made of several rows of lace, a
frill of the same, and ruffles reaching to the knuckles.
The buttons are cornelian, agate, turquoise, or merely
gold, bell-shaped. It is not uncommon in toilets for
places of public amusement to see the waistcoat
fastened with buttons mounted with brilliants. It is
unnecessary to say that every waistcoat has a little
watch-pocket out of which hangs a chain of gold and
precious stones, the end of which is hooked in a button-hole
and bears a number of costly trinkets. We
may here remark that they are made very simple or
very richly ornamented; for instance, those of the
most simple description are made either of black
velvet, embroidered with braid, and fastened with
black jet buttons, or of cachmere.
</p>

<p>
Materials for this month vary very little from those
of the winter months, as we seldom have really fine
spring weather during March. The fashionable colors
which prevail for the present month for out-door costume
are violet, maroon, green, blue, and gray of different
shades; while those intended for evening are
of very light colors, such as white, maize, blue, and
pink, the latter being extremely fashionable, relieved
with bright colors.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Head-dresses.</hi>&mdash;Petit dress-hats are now greatly
in request, made in the following manner:&mdash;It is
formed of black lace, and inlet formed of a jet-black
net-work, placed alternately, and ornamented with a
<hi rend='italic'>panache</hi>, each slip of feather being finished with a
small jet-bead, which falls in a glittering shower
upon the side of the head. Then, again, we see
those <hi rend='italic'>petit bords</hi> of black velvet; the crown being
open, shows the beauty of the hair; having also, upon
one side of the front, which is slightly turned back,
a <hi rend='italic'>nud</hi> of black satin ribbon broch gold very wide
and the ends descending nearly to the waist.
</p>

</div>

</body>
<back rend="page-break-before: right">
  <div id="footnotes">
    <index index="toc" />
    <index index="pdf" />
    <head>Footnotes</head>
    <divGen type="footnotes"/>
  </div>
  <div rend="page-break-before: right">
    <divGen type="pgfooter" />
  </div>
</back>
</text>
</TEI.2>
